Unit
19         Present tenses (I am doing / I do) for the future
       A   Present continuous (I am doing) with a future meaning

                                      This is Ben’s diary for next week.
                                      He is playing tennis on Monday afternoon.
                                      He is going to the dentist on Tuesday morning.
                                      He is meeting Kate on Friday.
                                      In all these examples, Ben has already decided and
                                      arranged to do these things.




           I’m doing something (tomorrow etc.) = I have already decided and arranged to do it:
                   a: What are you doing on Saturday evening? (not What do you do)
                   b: I’m going to the cinema. (not I go)
                   a: What time is Katherine arriving tomorrow?
                   b: Half past ten. We’re meeting her at the station.
                   I’m not working tomorrow, so we can go out somewhere.
                   Steve isn’t playing football next Saturday. He’s hurt his leg.
           We do not normally use will to talk about what we have arranged to do:
                   What are you doing tonight? (not What will you do)
                   Alex is getting married next month. (not will get)
           We also use the present continuous for an action just before you start to do it. This happens
           especially with verbs of movement (go/come/leave etc.):
                    I’m tired. I’m going to bed now. Goodnight. (not I go to bed now)
                    ‘Tina, are you ready yet?’ ‘Yes, I’m coming.’ (not I come)

       B   Present simple (I do) with a future meaning
           We use the present simple when we talk about timetables and programmes (for example, transport
           or cinema times):
                     I have to go. My train leaves at 11.30.
                     What time does the film start tonight?
                     The meeting is at nine o’clock tomorrow.
           You can use the present simple to talk about people if their plans are fixed like a timetable:
                    I start my new job on Monday.
                    What time do you finish work tomorrow?
           But the continuous is more usual for other personal arrangements:
                    What time are you meeting Kate tomorrow? (not do you meet)
           Compare:

             Present continuous                                       Present simple
                   What time are you arriving?                              What time does the train arrive?
                   I’m going to the cinema this evening.                    The film starts at 8.15.

           When you talk about appointments, lessons, exams etc., you can use I have or I’ve got:
                  I have an exam next week. or I’ve got an exam next week.


38             I’m going to ➜ Units 20, 23    will ➜ Units 21–22     Present simple after when and if ➜ Unit 25
