Unit
32         must            mustn’t                 needn’t
       A   must and mustn’t
           You must do something = it is necessary that you do it:
                  Don’t tell anybody what I said. You must keep it a secret.
                  We don’t have much time. We must hurry.
           You mustn’t do something = don’t do it:
                  You must keep it a secret. You mustn’t tell anyone. (= don’t tell anyone)
                  We must be very quiet. We mustn’t make any noise.

       B   needn’t and don’t need to
           You needn’t do something = it’s not necessary to do it (but you can if you want):
                   We have plenty of time. We needn’t hurry. (= it is not necessary to hurry)
                   Joe can stay here. He needn’t come with us. (= it is not necessary for him to come)
           You can also use don’t/doesn’t need to:
                    We don’t need to hurry.
           Note that we say ‘don’t need to do’, but ‘needn’t do’ (without to).
           Compare needn’t and mustn’t:
                  You needn’t tell Steve. I can tell him myself. (= it is not necessary)
                  You mustn’t tell Steve. I don’t want him to know. (= don’t tell him)

       C   needn’t have (done)
           Study this example situation:

                                  Can I reserve a table for two?

                                                                                 Paul and Sarah reserved a table at
                                                                                 a restaurant.
                                           We needn’t have reserved a table.
                                                                                 But when they went to the restaurant,
                                                                                 it was almost empty.
                                                                                 They needn’t have reserved a table.
                                                                                 This means: they reserved a table,
                                                                                 but now they know this was not
                                                                                 necessary.



           Compare needn’t (do) and needn’t have (done):
                  Everything will be OK. You needn’t worry. (it is not necessary)
                  Everything was OK. You needn’t have worried. (you worried, but it was not necessary)

       D   needn’t have (done) and didn’t need to (do)
           He needn’t have done something = he did it, but now we know that it was not necessary:
                  Why did he get up at 5 o’clock? He needn’t have got up so early. He could have stayed
                  in bed longer.
           He didn’t need to do something = it was not necessary to do it. It doesn’t matter whether he did it or not:
                    He didn’t need to get up early, so he didn’t.
                    He didn’t need to get up early, but it was a beautiful morning, so he did.
           You can also say ‘He didn’t have to get up’ in these examples.


               must (‘You must be tired’) ➜ Unit 28 have to and must ➜ Unit 31
64             Modal verbs (can/could/will/would etc.) ➜ Appendix 4 American English ➜ Appendix 7
