Unit
36         would
       A   We use would (’d) / wouldn’t when we imagine a situation or action (= we think of something that is
           not real):
                      It would be nice to buy a new car, but we can’t afford it.
                      I’d love to live by the sea.
                      a: Shall I tell Chris what happened?
                      b: No, I wouldn’t say anything.
                          (= I wouldn’t say anything in your situation)
           We use would have (done) when we imagine something
           that didn’t happen in the past:
                    They helped us a lot. I don’t know what we’d have done without their help.
                    (we’d have done = we would have done)
                    It’s a shame you didn’t see the film. You would have liked it.
                    I didn’t tell Sam what happened. He wouldn’t have been pleased.
           Compare would (do) and would have (done):
                  I would call Lisa, but I don’t have her number. (now)
                  I would have called Lisa, but I didn’t have her number. (past)
                  I’m not going to invite them to the party. They wouldn’t come anyway.
                  I didn’t invite them to the party. They wouldn’t have come anyway.
           We often use would in sentences with if (see Units 38–40):
                    I would call Lisa if I had her number.
                    I would have called Lisa if I’d had her number.

       B   Compare will (’ll) and would (’d):
                  I’ll stay a little longer. I’ve got plenty of time.
                  I’d stay a little longer, but I really have to go now. (so I can’t stay longer)
                  I’ll call Lisa. I have her number.
                  I’d call Lisa, but I don’t have her number. (so I can’t call her)
           Sometimes would/wouldn’t is the past of will/won’t.
           Compare:

                    present                                       past
                    TOM: I’ll call you on Sunday.           →     Tom said he’d call me on Sunday.
                    aMY: I promise I won’t be late.         →     Amy promised that she wouldn’t be late.
                    LISa: Oh, no! The car won’t start.      →     Lisa was annoyed because her car wouldn’t start.

           Somebody wouldn’t do something = he/she refused to do it:
                 I tried to warn him, but he wouldn’t listen to me. (= he refused to listen)
                 The car wouldn’t start. (= it ‘refused’ to start)

       C   You can also use would to talk about things that happened regularly in the past:
                    When we were children, we lived by the sea. In summer, if the weather was fine, we would
                    all get up early and go for a swim. (= we did this regularly)
                    Whenever Richard was angry, he would walk out of the room.
           With this meaning, would is similar to used to (see Unit 18):
                     Whenever Richard was angry, he used to walk out of the room.




               will ➜ Units 21–22 would … if ➜ Units 38–40 wish … would ➜ Unit 41                   would like ➜ Units 37D, 58
72             would prefer / would rather ➜ Unit 59 Modal verbs ➜ Appendix 4
