Unit
39         if I knew … I wish I knew …
       A   Study this example situation:

             Sarah wants to phone Paul, but she can’t do this because
             she doesn’t know his number. She says:
             I’d phone him if I knew his number.
             (I’d phone = I would phone)
             Sarah doesn’t know Paul’s number, so she says ‘if I knew’.
             She imagines what she would do if she knew his number.
                                                                                               … if I knew his number …


           When we imagine a situation like this, we use if + past (if I knew / if you were / if we didn’t etc.).
           But the meaning is present, not past:
                    There are many things I’d like to do if I had more time. (but I don’t have time)
                    If I didn’t want to go to the party, I wouldn’t go. (but I want to go)
                    If you were in my position, what would you do?
                    It’s a pity he can’t drive. It would be useful if he could.

       B   We use the past in the same way after wish (I wish I knew / I wish you were etc.).
           We use wish to say that we regret something, that something is not as we would like it to be:
                    I wish I knew Paul’s phone number.
                    (= I don’t know it and I regret this)                                   I wish I had an umbrella.
                    Do you ever wish you could fly?
                    (you can’t fly)
                    It’s very crowded here. I wish there weren’t
                    so many people. (there are a lot of people)
                    I wish I didn’t have to work tomorrow, but
                    unfortunately I do.
           Compare:
                  I’m glad I live here. (I live here and that’s good)
                  I wish I lived here. (I don’t live here unfortunately)

       C   After if and wish, you can use were instead of was (if I were / I wish it were etc.).
           You can also use was. So you can say:
                      If I were you, I wouldn’t buy that coat. or     If I was you, …
                      I’d go for a walk if it weren’t so cold. or      … if it wasn’t so cold.
                      I wish Anna were here.                   or      I wish Anna was here.

       D   We do not usually say ‘if … would’. We use would (’d) in the other part of the sentence:
                    If I were rich, I would travel a lot. (not If I would be rich)
                    Who would you ask if you needed help? (not if you would need)
           In the same way we say:
                    I wish I had something to read. (not I wish I would have)
                    I wish she were here now. (not I wish she would be)
           For ‘I wish … would …’ see Unit 41.

       E   Could sometimes means ‘would be able to’ and sometimes ‘was/were able to’:
                   She could get a better job               (she could get = she would be able to get)
                   if she could speak another language.     (if she could speak = if she was able to speak)
                   I wish I could help you.                 (I wish I could = I wish I was able)

               could ➜ Units 26–27 if I do / if I did ➜ Unit 38
78             if I had known / I wish I had known ➜ Unit 40 wish ➜ Unit 41
