Unit
44         Passive 3
       A   I was offered … / we were given … etc.
           Some verbs can have two objects. For example, give:
                   My grandfather gave me this watch.




                                                    ⎩
                                                    ⎪
                                                    ⎪
                                                    ⎪
                                                    ⎨
                                                    ⎪
                                                    ⎪
                                                    ⎪
                                                    ⎧
                                             ⎩
                                             ⎨
                                             ⎧
                                         object 1   object 2

           It is possible to make two passive sentences:
                      I was given this watch (by my grandfather). or
                      This watch was given to me (by my grandfather).
           Other verbs which can have two objects are:
               ask      offer     pay      show        tell
           When we use these verbs in the passive, most often we begin with the person:
                  I’ve been offered the job, but I don’t think I want it. (= somebody has offered me the job)
                  You will be given plenty of time to decide. (= we will give you plenty of time)
                  I didn’t see the original document, but I was shown a copy. (= somebody showed me a copy)
                  Tim has an easy job – he’s paid a lot of money to do very little. (= somebody pays him a lot)

       B   I don’t like being …
           The passive of doing/seeing etc. is being done / being seen etc. Compare:
                 active:      I don’t like people telling me what to do.
                 passive:     I don’t like being told what to do.
                     I remember being taken to the zoo when I was a child.
                     (= I remember somebody taking me to the zoo)
                     Steve hates being kept waiting. (= he hates people keeping him waiting)
                     We climbed over the wall without being seen. (= without anybody seeing us)

       C   I was born …
           We say ‘I was born …’ (not I am born):
                     I was born in Chicago.                         ⎧
                                                                    ⎨ past
                     Where were you born? (not Where are you born?) ⎩
           but
                     How many babies are born every day?                   present

       D   get
           You can use get for the passive:
                    There was a fight, but nobody got hurt. (= nobody was hurt)
                    I don’t get invited to many parties. (= I’m not invited)
                    I’m surprised Liz didn’t get offered the job. (= Liz wasn’t offered the job)
           We use get only when things happen. For example, you cannot use get in these sentences:
                   Jessica is liked by everybody. (not gets liked – this is not a ‘happening’)
                   Peter was a mystery man. Very little was known about him. (not got known)
           We use get mainly in informal spoken English. You can use be in all situations.
           We also use get in the following expressions (which are not passive in meaning):
               get married, get divorced                         get dressed (= put on your clothes)
               get lost (= not know where you are)               get changed (= change your clothes)




88               Passive 1–2 ➜ Units 42–43
