Unit
57         Verb + -ing or to … 2 (try, need, help)
       A   try to … and try -ing
             try to do = attempt to do, make an effort to do:
                      I was very tired. I tried to keep my eyes open, but I couldn’t.
                      Please try to be quiet when you come home. Everyone will be asleep.
             try something or try doing something = do it as an experiment or test:
                    These cakes are delicious. You should try one. (= have one to see if you like it)
                    We couldn’t find anywhere to stay. We tried every hotel in the town, but they were all full.
                    (= we went to every hotel to see if they had a room)
                    a: The photocopier doesn’t seem to be working.
                    b: Try pressing the green button.
                       (= press the green button – perhaps this will help to solve the problem)
             Compare:
                    I tried to move the table, but it was too heavy. (so I couldn’t move it)
                    I didn’t like the way the furniture was arranged, so I tried moving the table to the other
                    side of the room. But it didn’t look right, so I moved it back again.
                    (I tried moving it = I moved it to see if it looked better)


       B   need to … and need -ing

             I need to do something = it is necessary for me to do it:
                      He needs to work harder if he wants to make progress.                 My phone needs charging.
                      I don’t need to come to the meeting, do I?
             You can say that something needs -ing:
                      My phone needs charging. (= it needs to be charged)
                      Does your suit need cleaning? (= … need to be cleaned)
                      It’s a difficult problem. It needs thinking about carefully.
                      (= it needs to be thought about carefully)
             Compare:
                    I need to charge my phone.
             but    My phone needs charging.


       C   help and can’t help

             You can say help to do or help do (with or without to):
                      Everybody helped to clean up after the party. or
                      Everybody helped clean up …
                      Can you help me move this table? or
                      Can you help me to move …
             I can’t help doing something = I can’t stop myself doing it:
                      I don’t like him, but he has a lot of problems.
                      I can’t help feeling sorry for him.
                      She tried to be serious, but she couldn’t help laughing.
                      (= she couldn’t stop herself laughing)
                      I’m sorry I’m so nervous. I can’t help it.
                      (= I can’t help being nervous)                                 She couldn’t help laughing.




114            Verb + -ing ➜ Unit 53   Verb + to … ➜ Units 54–55   Other verbs + -ing or to … ➜ Units 56, 58
