Unit
73         the 1
       A   We use the when there is only one of something:
                   Have you ever crossed the equator?
                   (there is only one equator)
                   Our apartment is on the tenth floor.
                   Buenos Aires is the capital of Argentina.               THE EQUATOR
                   I’m going away at the end of this month.
           We use the + superlative (best, oldest etc.):
                   What’s the longest river in Europe?
           Compare the and a/an (see also Units 71–72):
                  The sun is a star. (= one of many stars)
                  The hotel where we stayed was a very old hotel.
                  We live in an apartment on the tenth floor.
                  What’s the best way to learn a language?

       B   We say ‘the same’:
                    Your sweater is the same colour as mine. (not is same colour)
                    ‘Are these keys the same?’ ‘No, they’re different.’

       C   We say: the world          the universe       the sun           the moon         the earth
                   the sky            the sea            the ground        the country (= not a town)
                    I love to look at the stars in the sky. (not in sky)
                    Do you live in a town or in the country?
                    The earth goes round the sun, and the moon goes round the earth.
           We also use Earth (without the) when we think of it as a planet in space (like Mars, Jupiter etc.).
                    Which is the planet nearest Earth?
           We say space (without the) when we mean ‘space in the universe’. Compare:
                   There are millions of stars in space. (not in the space)
                   I tried to park my car, but the space was too small.

       D   We say:
           (go to) the cinema, the theatre
                     I go to the cinema a lot, but I haven’t been to the theatre for ages.
           TV / television (without the), but the radio
                    I watch TV a lot, but I don’t listen to the radio much.
           but      Can you turn off the television, please? (the television = the TV set)
           the internet
                    The internet has changed the way we live.

       E   We usually say breakfast/lunch/dinner (without the):
                   What did you have for breakfast?
                   We had lunch in a very nice restaurant.
           But we say ‘a big lunch’, ‘a wonderful dinner’, ‘an early breakfast’ etc.
                    We had a very nice lunch. (not We had very nice lunch)

       F   We say: size 43, platform 5 etc. (without the)
                    Our train leaves from platform 5. (not the platform 5)
                    Do you have these shoes in size 43? (not the size 43)
           In the same way, we say: room 126, page 29, vitamin A, section B etc.

               a/an ➜ Unit 71 a/an and the ➜ Unit 72         the 2–4 ➜ Units 74–76
146            Names with and without the ➜ Units 77–78
