Unit
85         some and any
       A   In general we use some (also somebody/someone/something) in positive sentences and any
           (also anybody etc.) in negative sentences:

             some                                                  any
                    We bought some flowers.                                We didn’t buy any flowers.
                    He’s busy. He has some work to do.                     He’s lazy. He never does any work.
                    There’s somebody at the door.                          There isn’t anybody at the door.
                    I want something to eat.                               I don’t want anything to eat.

           We use any in the following sentences because the meaning is negative:
                   She went out without any money. (she didn’t take any money with her)
                   He refused to eat anything. (he didn’t eat anything)
                   It’s a very easy exam. Hardly anybody fails. (= almost nobody fails)

       B   We use both some and any in questions. We use some/somebody/something to talk about a person
           or thing that we know exists, or we think exists:
                     Are you waiting for somebody? (I think you are waiting for somebody)
           We use some in questions when we ask for or offer things:
                   Can I have some sugar, please? (there is probably some sugar that I can have)
                   Would you like something to eat? (there is something to eat)
           But in most questions, we use any. We do not know if the thing or person exists:
                    Do you have any luggage? (maybe you do, maybe not)
                    Is there anybody in the house? (maybe there is, maybe not)

       C   You can use if + any:
                    Let me know if you need anything.
                    If anyone has any questions, I’ll be pleased to answer them.
           The following sentences have the idea of if:
                    I’m sorry for any trouble I’ve caused. (= if I have caused any trouble)
                    The police want to speak to anyone who saw the accident. (= if there is anyone)

       D   We also use any with the meaning ‘it doesn’t matter which’:
                    You can take any bus. They all go to the centre. (= it doesn’t matter which bus you take)
                    Come and see me any time you want.
           We use anybody/anyone/anything/anywhere in the same way:
                   We forgot to lock the door. Anybody could have come in.
           Compare some- and any-:
                  a: I’m hungry. I want something to eat.
                  b: What would you like?
                  a: I don’t mind. Anything. (= it doesn’t matter what)
                  b: Let’s go out somewhere.
                  a: Where shall we go?
                  b: Anywhere. I just want to go out.

       E   Somebody/someone/anybody/anyone are singular words:
                 Someone is here to see you.
           But we use they/them/their after these words:
                   Someone has forgotten their umbrella. (= his or her umbrella)
                   If anybody wants to leave early, they can. (= he or she can)



170            not … any ➜ Unit 86     some of / any of … ➜ Unit 88      hardly any ➜ Unit 101C
