UnitAdjectives and adverbs 2
101 (well, fast, late, hard/hardly)
       A   good and well
           Good is an adjective. The adverb is well:
                    Your English is good.      but You speak English well.
                    Sophie is a good pianist. but Sophie plays the piano well.
           We use well (not good) with past participles (known/educated etc.). For example:
               well-known        well-educated           well-paid  well-behaved
                   Sophie’s father is a well-known writer.
           Well is also an adjective meaning ‘in good health’:
                     ‘How are you today?’ ‘I’m very well, thanks.’

       B   fast, hard and late
           These words are both adjectives and adverbs:
                   adjective                          adverb
                   Darren is a fast runner.           Darren can run fast.
                   It’s hard to find a job right now. Kate works hard. (not works hardly)
                   Sorry I’m late.                    I got up late.
           lately = recently:
                     Have you seen Kate lately?

       C   hardly
           hardly = very little, almost not:
                   Sarah wasn’t very friendly at the party. She hardly spoke to me.
                   (= she spoke to me very little)
                   We’ve only met once or twice. We hardly know each other.
           Compare hard and hardly:
                  He tried hard to find a job, but he had no luck. (= he tried a lot, with a lot of effort)
                  I’m not surprised he didn’t find a job. He hardly tried. (= he tried very little)
           Hardly goes before the verb:
                   We hardly know each other. (not We know each other hardly)
           I can hardly do something = it’s very difficult for me, almost impossible:
                    Your writing is terrible. I can hardly read it. (= it is almost impossible to read it)
                    My leg was hurting. I could hardly walk.

       D   You can use hardly + any/anybody/anyone/anything/anywhere:                                    There’s hardly anything
                    a: How much money do we have?                                                        in the fridge.
                    B: Hardly any. (= very little, almost none)
                    These two cameras are very similar. There’s hardly any
                    difference between them.
                    The exam results were bad. Hardly anybody in our
                    class passed. (= very few students passed)
                    She was very quiet. She said hardly anything. or
                    She hardly said anything.
           hardly ever = almost never:
                   I’m nearly always at home in the evenings. I hardly ever go out.
           Hardly also means ‘certainly not’. For example:
                   It’s hardly surprising that you’re tired. You haven’t slept for three days.
                   (= it’s certainly not surprising)
                   The situation is serious, but it’s hardly a crisis. (= it’s certainly not a crisis)


202             Adjectives after verbs (‘You look tired’ etc.) ➜ Unit 99C   Adjectives and adverbs 1 ➜ Unit 100
