Unit
111 still any more yet already
       A   We use still to say that a situation or action is continuing. It hasn’t changed or stopped:
                   It’s ten o’clock and Joe is still in bed.
                   When I went to bed, Chris was still working.
                   Do you still want to go away or have you changed your mind?
           Still also means ‘in spite of this’. For example:
                     He has everything he needs, but he’s still unhappy.
           Still usually goes in the middle of the sentence with the verb. See Unit 110.

       B   We use not … any more or not … any longer to say that a situation has changed.
           Any more and any longer go at the end of a sentence:
                   Lucy doesn’t work here any more. She left last month. or
                   Lucy doesn’t work here any longer.
                   We used to be good friends, but we aren’t any more. or … we aren’t any longer.
           You can write any more (2 words) or anymore (1 word).
           You can also use no longer. No longer goes in the middle of the sentence:
                    Lucy no longer works here.
           We do not normally use no more in this way:
                    We are no longer friends. (not we are no more friends)
           Compare still and not … any more:
                  Sally still works here, but Lucy doesn’t work here any more.

       C   We use yet mainly in negative sentences (He isn’t here yet) and questions (Is he here yet?).
           Yet (= until now) shows that the speaker expects something to happen.
           Yet usually goes at the end of a sentence:
                    It’s 10 o’clock and Joe isn’t here yet.
                    Have you decided what to do yet?
                    ‘Where are you going on holiday?’ ‘We don’t know yet.’
           We often use yet with the present perfect (‘Have you decided … yet?’). See Unit 7C.
           Compare yet and still:
                  Mike lost his job six months ago and is still unemployed.
                  Mike lost his job six months ago and hasn’t found another job yet.
                  Is it still raining?
                  Has it stopped raining yet?
           Still is also possible in negative sentences (before the negative):
                      She said she would be here an hour ago and she still hasn’t come.
           This is similar to ‘she hasn’t come yet’. But still … not shows a stronger feeling of surprise or
           impatience. Compare:
                      I sent him an invitation last week. He hasn’t replied yet. (but I expect he will reply soon)
                      I sent him an invitation weeks ago and he still hasn’t replied. (he should have replied
                      before now)

       D   We use already to say that something happened sooner than expected.
                   ‘What time is Sue leaving?’ ‘She has already left.’ (= sooner than you expected)
                   Shall I tell Joe what happened or does he already know?
                   I’ve just had lunch and I’m already hungry.
           Already usually goes in the middle of a sentence (see Unit 110) or at the end:
                   She’s already left. or She’s left already.




222             Present perfect + already/yet ➜ Unit 7C   Word order ➜ Unit 110
