                                                                                                          Unit
Exercises                                                                                                115
115.1 Write a new sentence with the same meaning. Use unless in your sentence.
        1 You must try a bit harder, or you won’t pass the exam.
            You won’t pass the exam unless you try a bit harder.
        2 Listen carefully, or you won’t know what to do.
          You won’t know what to do
        3 She must apologise to me, or I’ll never speak to her again.

        4 You have to speak very slowly, or he won’t understand you.

        5 Business must improve soon, or the company will have to close.

        6 We need to do something soon, or the problem will get worse.


115.2 Write sentences with unless.
        1 The club isn’t open to everyone. You’re allowed in only if you’re a member.
             You aren’t allowed in the club unless you’re a member.
        2 I don’t want to go to the party alone. I’m going only if you go too.
          I’m not going
        3 Don’t worry about the dog. It will chase you only if you move suddenly.
          The dog
        4 Ben isn’t very talkative. He’ll speak to you only if you ask him something.
          Ben
        5 Today is a public holiday. The doctor will see you only if it’s an emergency.
          The doctor

115.3 Which is correct?
        1 You can borrow my car unless / as long as you promise not to drive too fast.
          (as long as is correct)
        2 We’re going to the beach tomorrow unless / providing the weather is bad.
        3 We’re going to the beach tomorrow unless / providing the weather is good.
        4 I don’t mind if you come home late unless / as long as you come in quietly.
        5 I’m going now unless / provided you want me to stay.
        6 I don’t watch TV unless / as long as I have nothing else to do.
        7 Children are allowed to use the swimming pool unless / provided they are with an adult.
        8 Unless / Provided they are with an adult, children are not allowed to use the swimming pool.
        9 We can sit here in the corner unless / as long as you’d rather sit by the window.
       10 a: Our holiday cost a lot of money.
          B: Did it? Well, that doesn’t matter unless / as long as you enjoyed yourselves.

115.4 Use your own ideas to complete these sentences.
        1 We’ll be late unless we take a taxi.
        2 I like hot weather as long as
        3 It takes 20 minutes to drive to the airport provided
        4 I don’t mind walking home as long as
        5 I like to walk to work in the morning unless
        6 We can meet tomorrow unless
        7 I’ll lend you the money providing
        8 I’ll tell you a secret as long as
        9 You won’t achieve anything unless




➜ Additional exercise 32 (page 321)                                                                      231
