Unit
126 to, at, in and into
       A   We say go/come/travel (etc.) to a place or event. For example:
            go to China               go to work          come to my house                      TO
            go back to Italy          go to the bank      drive to the airport
            return to London          go to a party       be taken to hospital

                      When are your friends going back to Italy? (not going back in Italy)
                      Three people were injured in the accident and taken to hospital.
           In the same way we say Welcome to … , a trip to … , a visit to … , on my way to … etc. :
                    Welcome to our country! (not Welcome in)
                    We had to cancel our trip to Paris.
           Compare to (for movement) and in/at (for position):
                  They are going to France. but They live in France.
                  Can you come to the party? but I’ll see you at the party.
           We say ‘(I’ve) been to’ a place or an event:
                     I’ve been to Italy four times, but I’ve never been to Rome.
                     Amanda has never been to a football match in her life.

       B   get and arrive
           We say get to a place:
                   They got to the hotel at midnight.
                   What time did you get to the party?
           We say arrive in … or arrive at … (not arrive to).
           We say arrive in a town or country:
                   They arrived in Madrid / in Spain a week ago.
           For other places (buildings etc.) or events, we say arrive at:
                    What time did you arrive at the hotel / at the airport / at the party?

       C   home
           We say: go home, come home, get home, arrive home, on the way home etc. (no preposition).
           We do not say ‘to home’:
                    What time did you get home? (not get to home)
                    I met Lisa on my way home.

       D   into
           go into, get into … etc. = enter (a room / a building / a car etc.):
                    I opened the door, went into the room and sat down.                         INTO
                    A bird flew into the kitchen through the window.
                    Every month my salary is paid directly into my bank account.
           With some verbs (especially go/get/put) we often use in (instead of into):
                   She got in the car and drove away. or She got into the car …
                   I read the letter and put it back in the envelope.
           The opposite of into is out of:
                   She got out of the car and went into a shop.
           For buses, trains and planes, we usually say get on and get off:
                   She got on the bus and I never saw her again.
                   You need to get off (the train) at the next station.


                  been to ➜ Units 7–8 in/at/on (position) ➜ Units 123–125     at home ➜ Unit 125A
252               into and in ➜ Unit 138A
