Unit
134 Verb + preposition 3 about and of
       A   hear ABOUT … = be told about something
                 Did you hear about the fire at the hotel?

           hear OF … = know that somebody/something exists
                 a: Who is Tom Hart?
                 B: I have no idea. I’ve never heard of him. (not heard from him)

           hear FROM … = be in contact with somebody
                 a: Have you heard from Jane recently?
                 B: Yes, she called me a few days ago.


       B   think ABOUT something = consider it, concentrate your mind on it:
                 I’ve thought about what you said and I’ve decided to take your advice.
                 a: Will you lend me the money?
                 B: I’ll think about it. (not think of it)

           think OF something = produce an idea:
                 It was my idea. I thought of it first. (not thought about it)
                 I felt embarrassed. I couldn’t think of anything to say. (not think about anything)
           We also use think of when we ask for or give an opinion:
                 a: What did you think of the movie?
                 B: I didn’t think much of it. (= I didn’t like it much)

           Sometimes the difference is very small and you can use of or about:
                 When I’m alone, I often think of you. or … think about you.

           You can say think of or think about doing something (for possible future actions):
                 My sister is thinking of going to Canada. or … thinking about going …


       C   dream ABOUT … (when you are asleep)
                I dreamt about you last night.

           dream OF/ABOUT being something / doing something = imagine
                Do you dream of being rich and famous? or … dream about being rich …

           I wouldn’t dream OF doing something = I would never do it
                 ‘Don’t tell anyone what I said.’ ‘No, I wouldn’t dream of it.’


       D   complain (TO somebody) ABOUT … = say that you are not satisfied
                We complained to the manager of the restaurant about the food.

           complain OF a pain, an illness etc. = say that you have a pain etc.
                We called the doctor because George was complaining of a pain in his stomach.


       E   remind somebody ABOUT … = tell somebody not to forget
                It’s good you reminded me about the meeting. I’d completely forgotten about it.

           remind somebody OF … = cause somebody to remember
                This house reminds me of the one I lived in when I was a child.
                Look at this photograph of Richard. Who does he remind you of?



268          remind somebody to … ➜ Unit 55B
