       To the student

       This book is for students who want help with English grammar. It is written for you to use without
       a teacher.
       The book will be useful for you if you are not sure of the answers to questions like these:
           What is the difference between I did and I have done?
           When do we use will for the future?
           What is the structure after I wish?
           When do we say used to do and when do we say used to doing?
           When do we use the?
           What is the difference between like and as?
       These and many other points of English grammar are explained in the book, and there are exercises
       on each point.

       Level
       The book is intended mainly for intermediate students (students who have already studied the basic
       grammar of English). It concentrates on those structures that intermediate students want to use, but
       that often cause difficulty. Some advanced students who have problems with grammar will also find
       the book useful.
       The book is not suitable for elementary learners.

       How the book is organised
       There are 145 units in the book. Each unit concentrates on a particular point of grammar. Some
       problems (for example, the present perfect or the use of the) are covered in more than one unit. For a
       list of units, see the Contents at the beginning of the book.
       Each unit consists of two facing pages. On the left there are explanations and examples; on the right
       there are exercises. At the back of the book there is an Answer Key for you to check your answers to
       the exercises (page 336).
       There are also seven Appendices at the back of the book (pages 292–301). These include irregular
       verbs, summaries of verb forms, spelling, and American English.
       Finally, there is a detailed Index at the back of the book (page 373).

       How to use the book
       The units are not in order of difficulty, so it is not intended that you work through the book from
       beginning to end. Every learner has different problems, and you should use this book to help you
       with the grammar that you find difficult.
       It is suggested that you work in this way:
           Use the Contents and/or Index to find which unit deals with the point you are interested in.
           If you are not sure which units you need to study, use the Study guide on page 326.
           Study the explanations and examples on the left-hand page of the unit you have chosen.
           Do the exercises on the right-hand page.
           Check your answers with the Key.
           If your answers are not correct, study the left-hand page again to see what went wrong.
       You can, of course, use the book simply as a reference book without doing the exercises.




viii
