    To the teacher

    English Grammar in Use was written as a self-study grammar book, but teachers may also find it
    useful as additional course material in cases where further work on grammar is necessary.
    The book will probably be most useful at middle- and upper-intermediate levels (where all or
    nearly all of the material will be relevant), and can serve both as a basis for revision and as a means
    for practising new structures. It will also be useful for some more advanced students who have
    problems with grammar and need a book for reference and practice. The book is not intended to be
    used by elementary learners.
    The units are organised in grammatical categories (Present and past, Articles and nouns, Prepositions
    etc.). They are not ordered according to level of difficulty, so the book should not be worked through
    from beginning to end. It should be used selectively and flexibly in accordance with the grammar
    syllabus being used and the difficulties students are having.
    The book can be used for immediate consolidation or for later revision or remedial work. It might
    be used by the whole class or by individual students needing extra help. The left-hand pages
    (explanations and examples) are written for the student to use individually, but they may of course
    be used by the teacher as a source of ideas and information on which to base a lesson. The student
    then has the left-hand page as a record of what has been taught and can refer to it in the future.
    The exercises can be done individually, in class or as homework. Alternatively (and additionally),
    individual students can be directed to study certain units of the book by themselves if they have
    particular difficulties not shared by other students in their class. Don’t forget the Additional exercises
    at the back of the book (see To the student).

    English Grammar in Use Fifth Edition
    This is a new edition of English Grammar in Use. The differences between this edition and the fourth
    edition are:
        Much of the material has been revised or reorganised, and in most units there are changes in the
        examples, explanations and exercises.
        The book has been redesigned with new, updated illustrations.
        There is a new ebook available with all the contents of the book as well as audio, access to a
        dictionary and more.
    An edition of English Grammar in Use without the Key is also available. Some teachers may prefer
    to use this with their students.




x
