Unit
11         how long have you (been) … ?
       A   Study this example situation:

                                                   Dan and Kate are married. They got married exactly
                                                   20 years ago, so today is their 20th wedding anniversary.
                                                   They have been married for 20 years.
                                                   We say: They are married. (present)
                                                   but How long have they been married?
                                                       (not How long are they married?)
                                                       They have been married for 20 years.        (present perfect)
                                                       (not They are married for 20 years)

           We use the present perfect to talk about something that began in the past and still
                                                                                                          present
           continues now.
                                                                                                            he is
           Compare the present and present perfect:
                                                                                                         we know
                    Paul is in hospital.
                                                                                                       do they have
           but     He’s been in hospital since Monday. (= He has been …)
                                                                                                       she is waiting
                   (not Paul is in hospital since Monday)
                     We know each other very well.
                                                                                     present perfect
           but       We’ve known each other for a long time.
                                                                                      he has been
                     (not We know)
                                                                                    we have known
                     Do they have a car?                                             have they had
           but       How long have they had their car?                            she has been waiting
                     She’s waiting for somebody.
           but       She hasn’t been waiting very long.                           past                         now


       B   I’ve known / I’ve had / I’ve lived etc. is the present perfect simple.
           I’ve been learning / I’ve been waiting etc. is the present perfect continuous.
           When we ask or say ‘how long’, the continuous is more usual (see Unit 10):
                  I’ve been learning English since January.
                  It’s been raining all morning.
                  Richard has been doing the same job for 20 years.
                  ‘How long have you been driving?’ ‘Since I was 17.’
           Some verbs (for example, know and like) are not normally used in the continuous:
                    How long have you known Jane? (not have you been knowing)
                    I’ve had these shoes for ages. (not I’ve been having)
           See also Units 4A and 10C. For have, see Unit 17.

       C   You can use either the continuous or simple with live and work:
                    Julia has been living in this house for a long time. or Julia has lived …
                    How long have you been working here? or How long have you worked here?
           But we use the simple (have lived etc.) with always:
                   I’ve always lived in the country. (not always been living)

       D   We say ‘I haven’t (done something) since/for …’ ( present perfect simple):
                     I haven’t seen Tom since Monday. (= Monday was the last time I saw him)
                     Sarah hasn’t phoned for ages. (= the last time she phoned was ages ago)




22               I haven’t … since/for ➜ Unit 8B   Present perfect continuous ➜ Units 9–10   for and since ➜ Unit 12A
