Unit
21         will and shall 1
       A   We use I’ll … (= I will) when we’ve just decided to do something. When we say ‘I’ll do something’,
           we announce our decision:
                    Oh, I left the door open. I’ll go and shut it.
                    ‘What would you like to drink?’ ‘I’ll have orange juice, please.’
                    ‘Did you call Max?’ ‘Oh no, I forgot. I’ll call him now.’
           We do not use the present simple (I do / I go etc.) in these sentences:
                    I’ll phone him now. (not I phone him now)
           We often use I think I’ll … / I don’t think I’ll … :
                    I’m a little hungry. I think I’ll have something to eat.
                    I don’t think I’ll go out tonight. I’m too tired.
           In spoken English will not is usually won’t:
                    I can see you’re busy, so I won’t stay long. (= I will not stay long)

       B   We often use I’ll in these situations:

             Oﬀering to do something                                                                     I’ll help you.
                    That bag looks heavy. I’ll help you with it. (not I help)
             Agreeing to do something
                    a: Can you give Tom this book?
                    b: Sure, I’ll give it to him when I see him this afternoon.
             Promising to do something
                    Thanks for lending me the money. I’ll pay you back on Friday.
                    I won’t tell anyone what happened. I promise.

                                                                                  The car won’t start.
           We use won’t to say that somebody refuses to do something:
                   I’ve tried to give her advice, but she won’t listen.
                   The car won’t start. (= the car ‘refuses’ to start)
           Will you (do something)? = please do it:
                    Will you please turn the music down? It’s too loud.

       C   We do not use will to talk about what has been decided or arranged before:
                   I’m going on holiday next Saturday. (not I’ll go)
           Compare:
                  I’m meeting Kate tomorrow morning. (decided before)
                  a: I’ll meet you at half past ten, OK?
                  b: Fine. See you then.                 (decided now)

       D   We use shall mostly in the questions shall I … ? / shall we … ?
           We use shall I … ? / shall we … ? to ask if it’s OK to do something or to ask for a suggestion:
                   Shall I open the window? (= do you want me to open it?)
                   I’ve got no money. What shall I do? (= what do you suggest?)
                   ‘Shall we go?’ ‘Just a minute. I’m not ready yet.’
                   ‘Where shall we have lunch?’ ‘Let’s go to Marino’s.’
           Compare shall I … ? and will you … ? :
                  Shall I shut the door? (= do you want me to shut it?)
                  Will you shut the door? (= I want you to shut it)



               I am doing (future) ➜ Unit 19 will and shall 2 ➜ Unit 22        I will and I’m going to ➜ Unit 23
42             American English ➜ Appendix 7
