Unit
33         should 1
       A   You should do something = it is a good thing to do or the right thing to do.
           You can use should to give advice or to give an opinion:
                    You look tired. You should go to bed.
                    The government should do more to improve
                    schools.
                    a: Should we invite Stephanie to the party?
                    b: Yes, I think we should.
                    The man on the motorbike should be wearing a helmet.
           You shouldn’t do something = it isn’t a good thing to do:
                   You shouldn’t believe everything you read in newspapers.
           We often use should with I think / I don’t think / Do you think … ? :
                    I think the government should do more to improve schools.
                    I don’t think you should work so hard.
                    a: Do you think I should apply for this job?
                    b: Yes, I think you should.
           Should is not as strong as must or have to:
                   You should apologise. (= it would be a good thing to do)
                   You must apologise. / You have to apologise. (= you have no alternative)

       B   We use should when something is not right or what we expect:
                   Where’s Tina? She should be here by now.
                   (= she isn’t here yet, and this is not normal)
                   The price on this packet is wrong. It should be £2.50, not £3.50.
           We also use should to say that we expect something to happen:
                    Helen has been studying hard for the exam, so she should pass.
                    (= I expect her to pass)
                    There are plenty of hotels in the town. It shouldn’t be hard to find a place to stay.
                    (= I don’t expect it to be hard)

       C   You should have done something = you didn’t do it, but it would have been a good thing to do:
                   You missed a great party last night. You should have come. Why didn’t you?
                   (= you didn’t come, but it would have been good to come)
                   I wonder why they’re so late. They should have been here long ago.
           You shouldn’t have done something = you did it, but it wasn’t a good thing to do:
                   I’m feeling sick. I shouldn’t have eaten so much. (= I ate too much)
                   She shouldn’t have been listening to our conversation. It was private.
                   (= she was listening)
           Compare should (do) and should have (done):
                  You look tired. You should go to bed now.
                  You went to bed very late last night. You should have gone to bed earlier.

       D   ought to …
           You can use ought to instead of should in the sentences on this page.
           We say ‘ought to do’ (with to):
                    Do you think I ought to apply for this job? (= Do you think I should apply … ?)
                    Jack ought not to go to bed so late. (= Jack shouldn’t go …)
                    It was a great party last night. You ought to have come. (= You should have come)




               should 2 ➜ Unit 34 should and had better ➜ Unit 35B
66             Modal verbs (can/could/will/would etc.) ➜ Appendix 4
