Unit
41         wish
       A   We say ‘wish somebody luck / all the best / success’ etc. :
                    I wish you all the best in the future.
                    I saw Mark before the exam and he wished me luck.
           We say ‘wish somebody something’ (luck, happiness etc.), but we do not say ‘I wish something happens’.
           We use hope in this situation:
                    I’m sorry you’re not well. I hope you feel better soon. (not I wish you feel)
           Compare I wish and I hope:
                  I wish you a pleasant stay at this hotel.
                  I hope you enjoy your stay at this hotel. (not I wish you enjoy)

       B   We also use wish to say that we regret something, that something is not as we would like it.
           When we use wish in this way, we use the past (knew/lived etc.), but the meaning is present:
                    I wish I knew what to do about the problem. (but I don’t know)
                    I wish you didn’t have to go so soon. (but you have to go)
                    Do you wish you lived near the sea? (you don’t live near the sea)
                    Jack’s going on a trip to Mexico soon. I wish I was going too. (but I’m not going)
           To say that we regret something that happened before, we use wish + had known / had said etc. :
                    I wish I’d known about the party. I’d have gone if I’d known. (but I didn’t know)
                    It was a stupid thing to say. I wish I hadn’t said it. (but I said it)
           See also Units 39 and 40.

       C   I wish I could (do something) = I regret that I cannot do it:
                     I’m sorry you have to go. I wish you could stay longer. (but you can’t)
                     I’ve met that man before. I wish I could remember his name. (but I can’t)
           I wish I could have (done something) = I regret that I could not do it:
                     I hear the party was great. I wish I could have gone. (but I couldn’t go)

       D   You can say ‘I wish something would happen’. For example:

             I wish it would stop raining.   It’s been raining all day. Tanya doesn’t like it. She says:
                                             I wish it would stop raining.
                                             Tanya would like the rain to stop, but this will probably not happen.
                                             We use I wish … would when we would like something to happen
                                             or change.

           We often use I wish … would to complain about a situation:
                    The phone has been ringing for five minutes. I wish somebody would answer it.
                    I wish you’d do (= you would do) something instead of just sitting and doing nothing.
           You can use I wish … wouldn’t … to complain about things that people do repeatedly:
                    I wish you wouldn’t keep interrupting me. (= please stop interrupting me)

       E   We use I wish … would … to say that we want something to happen. We do not use I wish … would …
           to say how we would like things to be. Compare:
                    I wish Sarah would come. (= I want her to come)
           but      I wish Sarah was (or were) here now. (not I wish Sarah would be)
                     I wish somebody would buy me a car.
           but       I wish I had a car. (not I wish I would have)


                 would ➜ Unit 36 I wish I knew ➜ Unit 39       I wish I was / I wish I were ➜ Unit 39C
82               I wish I had known ➜ Unit 40
