Unit
42         Passive 1 (is done / was done)
       A   Study this example:

                                                          This house was built in 1981.
                                                          ‘This house was built’ is passive.
                                                          Compare active and passive:
                                                          Somebody built      this house in 1981. (active)
                                                              subject            object

                                                              This house was built in 1981. (passive)
                                                                subject


           When we use an active verb, we say what the subject does:
                  My grandfather was a builder. He built this house in 1981.
                  It’s a big company. It employs two hundred people.
           When we use a passive verb, we say what happens to the subject:
                  ‘How old is this house?’ ‘It was built in 1981.’
                  Two hundred people are employed by the company.

       B   When we use the passive, who or what causes the action is often unknown or unimportant:
                  A lot of money was stolen in the robbery. (somebody stole it, but we don’t know who)
                  Is this room cleaned every day? (does somebody clean it? – it’s not important who)
           If we want to say who does or what causes the action, we use by:
                    This house was built by my grandfather.
                    Two hundred people are employed by the company.

       C   The passive is be (is/was etc.) + past participle (done/cleaned/seen etc.):
               (be) done         (be) cleaned       (be) damaged        (be) built     (be) seen etc.
           The past participle often ends in -ed (cleaned/damaged etc.), but many important verbs are
           irregular (built/done/stolen etc.). See Appendix 1.
           Compare active and passive, present simple and past simple:

             Present simple
                                                                           Somebody cleans this room every day.
             active:      clean(s) / see(s) etc.

             passive: am/is/are + cleaned/seen etc.                         This room is cleaned every day.

                       Many accidents are caused by careless driving.
                       I’m not invited to parties very often.
                       How is this word pronounced?

             Past simple
                                                                           Somebody cleaned this room yesterday.
             active:      cleaned/saw etc.

             passive: was/were + cleaned/seen etc.                          This room was cleaned yesterday.

                       We were woken up by a loud noise during the night.
                       ‘Did you go to the party?’ ‘No, I wasn’t invited.’
                       How much money was stolen in the robbery?


84              Passive 2–3 ➜ Units 43–44     by ➜ Unit 128
