Unit
46         have something done
       A   Study this example situation:

                                                                 The roof of Lisa’s house was damaged.
                                                                 So she called a builder, and yesterday he came
                                                                 and repaired it.
                                                                 Lisa had the roof repaired yesterday.
                                                                 This means: Lisa arranged for somebody else to
                                                                 repair the roof. She didn’t repair it herself.




                                   LISA

           If you have something done, you arrange for somebody to do it for you.
           Compare:
                    Lisa repaired the roof. (= she repaired it herself)
                    Lisa had the roof repaired. (= she arranged for somebody else to repair it)
                     a: Did you make those curtains yourself?
                     b: Yes, I like making things.
                     a: Did you have those curtains made?
                     b: No, I made them myself.

       B   Study the word order:
                               have         object       past participle
                             Lisa had      the roof      repaired.
                Where did you have         your hair     cut?
                      We are having        the house     painted.
            I think you should have        that coat     cleaned.
                  I don’t like having      my picture    taken.
           We say:
                     How often do you have your car serviced? (not have serviced your car)
                     Our neighbour is having a garage built. (not having built a garage)
                     Your hair looks nice. Did you have it cut?

       C   get something done
           You can say ‘get something done’ instead of ‘have something done’:
                    When are you going to get the roof repaired? (= have the roof repaired)
                    I think you should get your hair cut really short.

       D   We also use have something done with a different meaning. For example:
                    Paul and Karen had their bags stolen while they were travelling.
           This does not mean that they arranged for somebody to steal their bags. ‘They had their bags stolen’
           means only: ‘Their bags were stolen’.
           With this meaning, we use have something done to say that something happens to somebody or their
           belongings:
                     Gary had his nose broken in a fight. (= his nose was broken)
                     Have you ever had your bike stolen?



92
