Unit
48         Reported speech 2
       A   We do not always change the verb in reported speech. If the situation is still the same, it is not necessary to
           change the verb to the past. For example:
                   direct      Paul said, ‘My new job is boring.’
                   reported Paul said that his new job is boring.
                               (The situation is still the same. His job is still boring now.)
                   direct      Helen said, ‘I want to go to Canada next year.’
                   reported Helen told me that she wants to go to Canada next year.
                               (Helen still wants to go to Canada next year.)
           You can also change the verb to the past:
                    Paul said that his new job was boring.
                    Helen told me that she wanted to go to Canada next year.
           But if the situation has changed or finished, you need to use a past verb. Compare:
                     Paul left the room suddenly. He said ‘I have to go.’ (direct speech)
                     Paul left the room suddenly. He said (that) he had to go. (not has to go)

       B   You need to use the past in reported speech when
           what was said is different from what is really true.                               Joe is in hospital.
           For example:
                                                                           RACHEL
           You met Rachel a few days ago. She said:
                   Have you heard? Joe is in hospital.
           Later that day you meet Joe in the street. You say:                          Rachel said
                    Joe, this is a surprise. Rachel said you were in hospital.          you were
                    (not ‘you are in hospital’ – it’s clear that he isn’t)              in hospital
                                                                                                                JOE


       C   say and tell
           If you say who somebody is talking to, use tell:
                     Rachel told me that you were in hospital. (not Rachel said me)
                     What did you tell the police? (not say the police)
           Otherwise use say:
                   Rachel said that you were in hospital.
                   (not Rachel told that …)
                   What did you say?
           You can ‘say something to somebody’:
                    Anna said goodbye to me and left. (not Anna said me goodbye)
                    What did you say to the police?

       D   We say ‘tell somebody to …’ and ‘ask somebody to …’ .
           Compare direct and reported speech:
                  direct       ‘Drink plenty of water,’ the doctor said to me.
                  reported The doctor told me to drink plenty of water.
                  direct       ‘Don’t work too hard,’ I said to Joe.
                  reported I told Joe not to work too hard.
                  direct       ‘Can you help me, please,’ Jackie said to me.
                  reported Jackie asked me to help her.
           You can also say ‘Somebody said (not) to do something’:
                    Paul said not to worry about him. (but not Paul said me)



96              Reported speech 1 ➜ Unit 47     Reported questions ➜ Unit 50B
