Unit
58         Verb + -ing or to … 3 (like / would like etc.)
       A   like / love / hate
           When you talk about repeated actions, you can use -ing or to … after these verbs.
           So you can say:
                    Do you like getting up early? or Do you like to get up early?
                    Stephanie hates flying. or Stephanie hates to fly.
                    I love meeting people. or I love to meet people.
                    I don’t like being kept waiting. or … like to be kept waiting.
                    I don’t like friends calling me at work. or … friends to call me at work.
           but
           (1) We use -ing (not to …) when we talk about a situation that already exists (or existed).
           For example:
                    Paul lives in Berlin now. He likes living there.
                    (he lives there now and he likes it)
                    Do you like being a student? (you are a student – do you like it?)
                    The office I worked in was horrible. I hated working there. (I worked there and I hated it)
           (2) There is sometimes a difference between I like to do and I like doing:
                I like doing something = I do it and I enjoy it:
                     I like cleaning the kitchen. (= I enjoy it.)
                I like to do something = I choose to do it (but maybe I don’t enjoy it):
                     It’s not my favourite job, but I like to clean the kitchen as often as possible.
                Note that we use -ing (not to …) with enjoy and mind:
                   I enjoy cleaning the kitchen. (not I enjoy to clean)
                   I don’t mind cleaning the kitchen. (not I don’t mind to clean)

       B   would like / would love / would hate / would prefer
           Would like / would love etc. are usually followed by to … :
                   I’d like (= I would like) to go away for a few days.
                   What would you like to do this evening?
                   I wouldn’t like to go on holiday alone.
                   I’d love to meet your family.
                   Would you prefer to eat now or later?
           Compare I like and I would like (I’d like):
                  I like playing tennis. / I like to play tennis. (= I like it in general)
                  I’d like to play tennis today. (= I want to play today)
           Would mind is followed by -ing:
                  Would you mind closing the door, please? (not mind to close)

       C   I would like to have (done something)
           I would like to have done something = I regret now that I didn’t or couldn’t do it:
                     It’s a shame we didn’t see Anna. I would like to have seen her again.
                     We’d like to have gone away, but we were too busy at home.
           We use the same structure after would love / would hate / would prefer:
                    Poor David! I would hate to have been in his position.
                    I’d love to have gone to the party, but it was impossible.




116            enjoy/mind ➜ Unit 53       would like ➜ Units 37E, 55A     prefer ➜ Unit 59
