Unit
61         be/get used to … (I’m used to …)
       A   Study this example situation:

                                                               Lisa is American, but she lives in Britain.
                                                               When she first drove a car in Britain, driving on the left
                                                               was a problem for her because:
                                                               She wasn’t used to it.
                                                               She wasn’t used to driving on the left.
                                                               (because Americans drive on the right)
                                                               But after some time, driving on the left became easier.
                                                               She got used to driving on the left.
                                     lisa
                                                               Now it’s no problem for Lisa:
                                                               She is used to driving on the left.




       B   I’m used to something = it is not new or strange for me
           You can say:                              something
                             be
                                      used to        or
                             get
                                                     doing something

                    Paul lives alone. He has lived alone for a long time, so it is not strange for him. He’s used to it.
                    He is used to living alone.
                    I bought some new shoes. They felt a little strange at first because I wasn’t used to them.
                    Our new apartment is on a busy street. I expect we’ll get used to the noise, but at the moment
                    it’s very disturbing.
                    Helen has a new job. She has to get up much earlier now than before – at 6.30. She finds this
                    difficult because she isn’t used to getting up so early.
                    Katherine’s husband is often away from home. She doesn’t mind this. She’s used to him
                    being away.

       C   We say ‘be/get used to doing something’ (not I’m used to do).
                    Lisa is used to driving on the left. (not is used to drive)
                    I’m used to living alone. (not I’m used to live)
           When we say ‘I am used to …’ , to is a preposition:
                                     ⎫ the noise.
                                     ⎪
                  We’re not used to ⎬ it.
                                     ⎪ living here. (not live here)
                                     ⎭
           Compare to + infinitive (to do, to live etc.):
                  We don’t want to live here.

       D   Compare I am used to doing and I used to do:
             I am used to (doing) something = it isn’t strange or new for me:
                   I’m used to the weather here.
                   I’m used to driving on the left because I’ve lived in Britain a long time.

             I used to do something = I did it regularly in the past but no longer do it. We use this only for the past
             (I used …), not for the present. See Unit 18.
                    I used to drive to work every day, but these days I usually go by bike.
                    We used to live just outside the town, but now we live near the centre.


122            used to (do) ➜ Unit 18       to + -ing ➜ Unit 60C
