Unit
63         there’s no point in -ing, it’s worth -ing etc.
       A   We say:      there’s no point in
                                 it’s no use    doing something
                               it’s no good

                     There’s no point in having a car if you never use it.
                     There was no point in waiting any longer, so we left.
                     It’s no use worrying about what happened. There’s nothing you can do about it.
                     It’s no good trying to persuade me. You won’t succeed.
           We say ‘no point in …’ but ‘the point of …’ :
                    There’s no point in having a car.
                    What’s the point of having a car if you never use it?

       B   We say:           it’s worth
                                           doing something
                        it’s not worth

                     It’s a nice town. It’s worth spending a few days there.
                     Our flight was very early in the morning, so it wasn’t worth going to bed.
           You can say that something is worth it or not worth it:
                    You should spend a couple of days here. It’s worth it.
                    We didn’t go to bed. It wasn’t worth it.
           You can also say that something is worth doing, a movie is worth seeing etc. :
                    It’s a great movie. It’s worth seeing.
                    Thieves broke into the house, but didn’t take anything. There was nothing worth stealing.
                    It’s an interesting idea. It’s worth thinking about.

       C   We say:                trouble
                       have      difficulty     doing something
                                a problem

                     I had no trouble finding a place to stay. (not trouble to find)
                     Did you have a problem getting a visa?
                     People sometimes have difficulty reading my writing.

       D   We say:      spend
                                  (time)      doing something
                        waste

                     He spent hours trying to repair the clock.
                     I waste a lot of time doing nothing.
           We also say ‘(be) busy doing something’:
                    She said she couldn’t meet me. She was too busy doing other things.

       E   We use go -ing for sports and other activities. For example:
           go sailing         go swimming            go fishing       go riding        go hiking
           go surfing         go scuba diving        go skiing        go jogging       go camping
                     How often do you go swimming?
                     We went skiing last year.
                     Tom isn’t here. He’s gone shopping.
                     I’ve never been sailing.

126            gone and been … ➜ Unit 7B
