Unit       to … (afraid to do) and
66         preposition + -ing (afraid of -ing)
       A   afraid to (do) and afraid of (do)ing

             I am afraid to do something =
             I don’t want to do it because it is dangerous or the result could be bad.
                     This part of town is dangerous. People are afraid to walk here at night.
                     (= they don’t walk here at night because it is dangerous)
                     James was afraid to tell his parents what had happened.
                     (= he didn’t tell them because he thought they would be angry)
             I am afraid of something happening =
             I am afraid that something bad will happen.
                     The path was icy, so we walked very carefully. We were afraid of falling.
                     (= we were afraid that we would fall – not afraid to fall)
                     I don’t like dogs. I’m always afraid of being bitten.
                     (= I’m afraid that I will be bitten – not afraid to be bitten)
             So, you are afraid to do something because you are afraid of something happening as a result:
                    I was afraid to go near the dog because I was afraid of being bitten.


       B   interested in (do)ing and interested to (do)
           I’m interested in doing something = I’m thinking of doing it, I would like to do it:
                    Let me know if you’re interested in joining the club. (not to join)
                    I tried to sell my car, but nobody was interested in buying it. (not to buy)
           I was interested to hear/see/know something = it was interesting for me. For example:
                     I was interested to hear that Tanya left her job.
                    (= I heard this and it was interesting for me)
                     I’ll ask Mike for his opinion. I would be interested to know what he thinks.
                     (= it would be interesting for me to know what he thinks)
           This structure is the same as surprised to … / glad to … etc. (see Unit 65C):
                     I was surprised to hear that Tanya left her job.

       C   sorry for … and sorry to …
           We use sorry for (doing) to apologise for something:
                    I’m sorry for shouting at you yesterday. (not sorry to shout)
           You can also say:
                    I’m sorry I shouted at you yesterday.
           We use sorry to … to say that we regret something that happens:
                   I’m sorry to hear that Nicky lost her job. (not sorry for)
                   I’ve enjoyed my stay here. I’ll be sorry to leave.
           We also say ‘I’m sorry to …’ to apologise at the time we do something:
                    I’m sorry to bother you, but I need to ask you a question.


       D   We say:   I want to (do), I’d like to (do)    but     I’m thinking of (do)ing
                     I hope to (do)                              I dream of (do)ing
                     I failed to (do)                            I succeeded in (do)ing
                     I allowed them to (do)                      I prevented them from (do)ing
                     I plan to (do)                              I’m looking forward to (do)ing
                     I promised to (do)                          I insisted on (do)ing




               Verb + to … ➜ Units 54–55 Verb + preposition + -ing ➜ Unit 62 sorry to … ➜ Unit 65C
132            Adjective + preposition ➜ Units 130–131 sorry about/for ➜ Unit 130
