Unit
68         -ing clauses (He hurt his knee playing football.)
       A   Study this example:

            Kate is in the kitchen. She’s making coffee.
            You can say:
                      Kate is in the kitchen making coffee.
                                              -ing clause

            You can use -ing in this way when two things happen
            at the same time:
                     A man ran out of the house shouting.
                     (= he ran out of the house and he was shouting)
                     Do something! Don’t just stand there doing nothing!
                     Be careful crossing the road.
            We also use -ing when one action happens during another action:
                    Joe hurt his knee playing football. (= while he was playing)
                    Did you cut yourself shaving? (= while you were shaving)
            You can also say ‘while doing something’ and ‘when doing something’:
                    Joe hurt his knee while playing football.
                    Be careful when crossing the road. (= when you are crossing)


       B   When one action happens before something else, we use having (done) for the first action:
                  Having found a hotel, we looked for somewhere to eat.
                  Having finished her work, she went home.
           You can also say after -ing:
                    After finishing her work, she went home.
           These structures are used more in written English than in spoken English.
           When we begin a sentence with ‘Having (done something)’ or ‘After (doing something)’, we
           write a comma (,) after this part of the sentence:
                     Having finished her work, she went home.

                                             comma


       C   You can also use -ing to explain something, or to say why somebody does something.
           The sentence usually begins with -ing:
                    Feeling tired, I went to bed early. (= because I felt tired)
                       -ing clause

                   Being unemployed, he doesn’t have much money. (= because he is unemployed)
                   Not having a car, she finds it difficult to get around.
                   (= because she doesn’t have a car)
           We use having (done) for something that is complete before something else:
                   Having seen the film twice, I didn’t want to see it again.
                   (= because I had seen it twice)
           These structures are used more in written English than in spoken English.
           When we begin a sentence with -ing (Feeling tired … / Not knowing … / Having seen … etc.), we write
           a comma (,) after this part of the sentence.
                    Not knowing what to do, I called my friend to ask her advice.




136
