Unit
72         a/an and the
       A   Study this example:

                                                                     Joe says ‘a sandwich’, ‘an apple’ because this is
              I had a sandwich and an apple
              for lunch.
                                                                     the first time he talks about them.
              The sandwich wasn’t very good,                         Joe now says ‘the sandwich’, ‘the apple’
              but the apple was nice.                                because we know which sandwich and
                                                                     which apple he means – the sandwich and
                                                                     the apple he had for lunch.



             JOE


           Compare a and the in these examples:
                  A man and a woman were sitting opposite me. The man was American, but I think the
                  woman was British.
                  When we were on holiday, we stayed at a hotel. Sometimes we ate at the hotel and
                  sometimes we went to a restaurant.

       B   We use the when we are thinking of a specific thing. Compare a/an and the:
                   Tim sat down on a chair. (maybe one of many chairs in the room)
                   Tim sat down on the chair nearest the door. (a specific chair)
                   Do you have a car? (not a specific car)
                   I cleaned the car yesterday. (= my car)
           We use a/an when we say what kind of thing or person we mean. Compare:
                   We stayed at a very cheap hotel. (a type of hotel)
                   The hotel where we stayed was very cheap. (a specific hotel)

       C   We use the when it is clear which thing or person we mean. For example, in a room we talk about the
           light / the floor / the ceiling / the door / the carpet etc. :
                     Can you turn off the light, please? (= the light in this room)
                     I took a taxi to the station. (= the station in that town)
                     (in a shop) I’d like to speak to the manager, please. (= the manager of this shop)
           We also say ‘(go to) the bank / the post office’:
                     I have to go to the bank and then I’m going to the post office.
                     (The speaker is usually thinking of a specific bank or post office.)
           and ‘(go to) the doctor / the dentist’:
                     Clare isn’t well. She’s gone to the doctor.
                     I don’t like going to the dentist.
           Compare the and a:
                  I have to go to the bank today.
                  Is there a bank near here?
                  I don’t like going to the dentist.
                  My sister is a dentist.


       D   We say ‘once a week / three times a day / £1.50 a kilo’ etc. :
                    I go to the cinema about once a month.
                    ‘How much are those potatoes?’ ‘£1.50 a kilo.’
                    Helen works eight hours a day, six days a week.




144            a/an ➜ Unit 71      the ➜ Units 73–78
