                                                                                                         Unit
Exercises                                                                                                77
77.1    Which is right?
        1 Who is Doctor Johnson / the Doctor Johnson? (Doctor Johnson is correct)
        2 I was ill. Doctor / The doctor told me to rest for a few days.
        3 Doctor Thomas / The Doctor Thomas is an expert on heart disease.
        4 I’m looking for Professor Brown / the Professor Brown. Do you know where she is?
        5 In the United States, President / the President is elected for four years.
        6 President Kennedy / The President Kennedy was assassinated in 1963.
        7 The officer I spoke to at the police station was Inspector Roberts / the Inspector Roberts.
        8 Do you know Wilsons / the Wilsons? They’re a very nice couple.
        9 Julia spent three years as a student in United States / the United States.
       10 France / The France has a population of about 66 million.

77.2    Some of these sentences are OK, but some need the (sometimes more than once).
        Correct the sentences where necessary.
        1 Everest was first climbed in 1953.                     OK
        2 Milan and Turin are cities in north of Italy.          in the north of Italy
        3 Africa is much larger than Europe.
        4 Last year I visited Mexico and United States.
        5 Southern England is warmer than north.
        6 Thailand and Cambodia are in southeast Asia.
        7 Chicago is on Lake Michigan.
        8 Next year we’re going skiing in Swiss Alps.
        9 UK consists of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
       10 Seychelles are a group of islands in Indian Ocean.
       11 I’ve never been to South Africa.
       12 River Volga flows into Caspian Sea.

77.3    Here are some geography questions. Choose the right answer from one of the boxes and use the if
        necessary. You do not need all the names in the boxes.
         continents         countries        oceans and seas    mountains      rivers and canals
         Africa             Canada           Atlantic           Alps           Amazon        Rhine
         Asia               Denmark          Indian Ocean       Andes          Danube        Thames
         Australia          Indonesia        Pacific            Himalayas      Nile          Volga
         Europe             Sweden           Black Sea          Rockies        Suez Canal
         North America      Thailand         Mediterranean      Urals          Panama Canal
         South America      United States    Red Sea

        1 What do you have to cross to travel from Europe to America? the Atlantic
        2 Where is Argentina?
        3 Which is the longest river in Africa?
        4 Of which country is Stockholm the capital?
        5 Of which country is Washington the capital?
        6 What is the name of the mountain range in the west of North America?
        7 What is the name of the sea between Africa and Europe?
        8 Which is the smallest continent in the world?
        9 What is the name of the ocean between North America and Asia?
       10 What is the name of the ocean between Africa and Australia?
       11 Which river flows through London?
       12 Which river flows through Vienna, Budapest and Belgrade?
       13 Of which country is Bangkok the capital?
       14 What joins the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans?
       15 Which is the longest river in South America?


                                                                                                        155
