Unit
84         there … and it …
       A   Study this example:


                                                                            There’s a new restaurant
                                                                            in Hill Street.

                                                                             Yes, I know. I’ve heard
                                                                             it’s very good.


           We use there … when we talk about something for the first time, to say that it exists:
                   There’s a new restaurant in Hill Street.
                   I’m sorry I’m late. There was a lot of traffic. (not It was a lot of traffic)
                   Things are very expensive now. There has been a big rise in the cost of living.
           It = a specific thing, place, fact, situation etc. :
                     We went to the new restaurant. It’s very good. (It = the restaurant)
                     I wasn’t expecting her to call me. It was a complete surprise. (It = that she called)
           Compare there and it:
                  I like this town. There’s a lot to do here. It’s an interesting place.
           There also means ‘to/at/in that place’:
                   The house is unoccupied. There’s nobody living there. (= in the house)

       B   You can say:
            there will be       there must have been       there is sure to be  there is likely to be
            there must be       there should have been     there is bound to be there is supposed to be
            there might be etc. there would have been etc. there is going to be there used to be

                     ‘Is there a flight to Rome tonight?’ ‘There might be. I’ll check online.’
                     If people drove more carefully, there wouldn’t be so many accidents.
                     I could hear music coming from the house. There must have been somebody at home.
                     There’s bound to be a cafe somewhere near here. (= There’s sure to be …)
           Compare there and it:
                  They live on a busy road. There must be a lot of noise from the traffic.
                  They live on a busy road. It must be very noisy. (It = living on a busy road)
                  There used to be a cinema here, but it closed a few years ago.
                  That building is now a supermarket. It used to be a cinema. (It = that building)
                  There’s sure to be a flight to Rome tonight.
                  There’s a flight to Rome tonight, but it’s sure to be full. (it = the flight)

       C   We say:
                   It’s dangerous to walk in the road. (not To walk in the road is dangerous)
           Normally we use It … at the beginning of sentences like this. Some more examples:
                   It didn’t take us long to get here.
                   It’s a shame (that) you can’t come to the party.
                   It’s not worth waiting any longer. Let’s go.
           We also use it to talk about distance, time and weather:
                    How far is it from here to the airport?
                    It’s a long time since we last saw you.
           Compare it and there:
                  It was windy. but There was a cold wind.

               supposed to … ➜ Unit 45B it’s worth / it’s no use / there’s no point ➜ Unit 63A
168            sure to / bound to … etc. ➜ Unit 65E there is + -ing/-ed ➜ Unit 97
