Unit
87         much, many, little, few, a lot, plenty
       A   We use much and little with uncountable nouns:
               much luck       much time       little energy           little money
           We use many and few with plural nouns:
               many friends     many people               few cars       few children
           We use a lot of / lots of / plenty of with both uncountable and plural nouns:
               a lot of luck            lots of time         plenty of money
               a lot of friends         lots of people       plenty of ideas
           plenty = more than enough:
                   There’s no need to hurry. We’ve got plenty of time.
                   There’s plenty to do in this town.

       B   Much is unusual in positive sentences (especially in spoken English). Compare:
                   We didn’t spend much money. but We spent a lot of money.
                   Do you see David much?            but I see David a lot.
           But we use too much / so much / as much in positive sentences:
                   We spent too much money.
           We use many and a lot of in all kinds of sentences:
                   Many people drive too fast.        or A lot of people drive too fast.
                   Do you know many people?           or Do you know a lot of people?
                   There aren’t many tourists here. or There aren’t a lot of tourists here.
           Note that we say many years / many weeks / many days:
                    We’ve lived here for many years. (not usually a lot of years)

       C   little = not much, few = not many:
                     Gary is very busy with his job. He has little time for other things.
                     (= not much time, less time than he would like)
                     Vicky doesn’t like living in London. She has few friends there.
                     (= not many friends, not as many as she would like)
           We often use very little and very few:
                    Gary has very little time for other things.
                    Vicky has very few friends in London.

       D   a little = some, a small amount:
                     Let’s go and have coffee. We have a little time before the train leaves.
                     (a little time = some time, enough time to have a coffee)
                     ‘Do you speak English?’ ‘A little.’ (so we can talk a bit)
           a few = some, a small number:
                    I enjoy my life here. I have a few friends and we meet quite often.
                    (a few friends = not many, but enough to have a good time)
                    ‘When was the last time you saw Clare?’ ‘A few days ago.’ (= 3 or 4 days ago)

       E   Compare little and a little, few and a few:
                  He spoke little English, so it was difficult to communicate with him.
                  He spoke a little English, so we were able to communicate with him.
                  She’s lucky. She has few problems. (= not many problems)
                  Things are not going so well for her. She has a few problems. (= some problems)
           We say only a little (not only little) and only a few (not only few):
                   Hurry! We only have a little time. (= some, but not much time)
                   The village was small. There were only a few houses. (= some but not many houses)

174            Countable and uncountable ➜ Units 69–70
