                                                                                                          Unit
Exercises                                                                                                 95
95.1    Make one sentence from two. Use the information in brackets to make a relative clause (Type 2).
        You will need to use who/whom/whose/which/where.
        1 Catherine is very friendly. (She lives next door to us.)
            Catherine, who lives next door to us, is very friendly.
        2 We stayed at the Park Hotel. (A friend of ours recommended this hotel.)
            We stayed at the Park Hotel, which a friend of ours recommended.
        3 We drove to the airport. (The airport was not far from the city.)
          We drove to the airport,
        4 Kate’s husband is an airline pilot. (I have never met Kate’s husband.)
          Kate’s                                                                                      pilot.
        5 Lisa is away from home a lot. (Lisa’s job involves a lot of travelling.)
          Lisa
        6 Paul and Emily have a daughter, Alice. (Alice has just started school.)
          Paul and Emily have
        7 The new stadium will hold 90,000 spectators. (The stadium will be finished next month.)

        8 My brother lives in Alaska. (Alaska is the largest state in the US.)

        9 Our teacher was very kind. (I have forgotten her name.)

       10 We enjoyed our visit to the museum. (We saw a lot of interesting things in the museum.)


95.2    Read the information and complete the sentences. Use a relative clause of Type 1 or Type 2.
        Use commas where necessary.
        1 My brother is an architect. (He lives in Hong Kong.)
          My brother, who lives in Hong Kong, is an architect.
        2 The strike at the factory has now ended. (The strike began ten days ago.)
          The strike at the factory
        3 I was looking for a book this morning. (I’ve found it now.)
          I’ve found
        4 I’ve had my car for 15 years. (This car has never broken down.)
          My car
        5 A lot of people applied for the job. (Few of them had the necessary qualifications.)
          Few of
        6 Amy showed me a picture of her son. (Her son is a police officer.)
          Amy showed me

95.3    Are these sentences OK? Correct them (and put in commas) where necessary. If the sentence is
        correct, write ‘OK’.
        1 Anna told me about her new job that she’s enjoying very much.
            Anna told me about her new job, which she’s enjoying very much.
        2 My office that is on the second floor is very small.

        3 The office that I’m using at the moment is very small.

        4 Sarah’s father that used to be in the army now works for a TV company.

        5 The doctor that examined me couldn’t find anything wrong.

        6 The sun that is one of millions of stars in the universe provides us with heat and light.



                                                                                                       191
