Unit
103 enough and too
                                                                                    I’m not fit enough.
       A   enough
           Enough goes after adjectives and adverbs:
                  I can’t run very far. I’m not fit enough. (not enough fit)
                  Let’s go. We’ve waited long enough.
           Enough normally goes before nouns:
                  We have enough money. We don’t need any more.
                  There weren’t enough chairs. Some of us had to sit on
                  the floor.
           We also use enough alone (without a noun or adjective):
                    We don’t need more money. We have enough.

       B   too and enough
           Compare too … and not … enough:
                  You never stop working. You work too hard.
                  (= more than is necessary)
                  You’re lazy. You don’t work hard enough.
                  (= less than is necessary)
           Compare too much/many and enough:
                  There’s too much furniture in this room. There’s not enough space.
                  There were too many people and not enough chairs.

       C   enough/too + for … and to …
           We say enough/too … for somebody/something:
                   Does Joe have enough experience for the job?
                   This bag isn’t big enough for all my clothes.
                   That shirt is too small for you. You need a larger size.
           We say enough/too … to do something. For example:
                   Does Joe have enough experience to do the job?
                   Let’s get a taxi. It’s too far to walk home from here.
                   She’s not old enough to have a driving licence.
           The next example has both for … and to … :
                    The bridge is just wide enough for two cars to pass one another.

       D   too hot to eat etc.
           We say:
            The food was very hot. We couldn’t eat it.
            and
            The food was so hot that we couldn’t eat it.
            but
            The food was too hot to eat. (not to eat it)                                              The wallet doesn’t
                                                                                                      fit in my pocket.
           In the same way we say:
                    These boxes are too heavy to carry. (not to carry them)
                    The wallet was too big to put in my pocket. (not to put it)
                    This chair isn’t strong enough to stand on. (not to stand on it)




206            to … and for … (purpose) ➜ Unit 64    Adjective + to … (difficult to understand etc.) ➜ Unit 65
