Unit
106 Comparative 2 (much better / any better etc.)
       A   much / a lot etc. + comparative
           Before comparatives you can use:
               much       a lot     far (= a lot)      a bit      a little     slightly (= a little)
                    I felt ill earlier, but I feel much better now. (or a lot better)
                    Don’t go by train. It’s a lot more expensive. (or much more expensive)
                    Could you speak a bit more slowly? (or a little more slowly)
                    This bag is slightly heavier than the other one.
                    The problem is far more serious than we thought at first.

       B   any / no + comparative
           You can use any and no + comparative (any longer / no bigger etc.):
                    I’ve waited long enough. I’m not waiting any longer. (= not even a little longer)
                    We expected their apartment to be very big, but it’s no bigger than ours.
                    or … it isn’t any bigger than ours. (= not even a little bigger)
                    How do you feel now? Do you feel any better?
                    This hotel is better than the other one, and it’s no more expensive.

       C   better and better, more and more etc.
           We repeat comparatives (better and better etc.) to say that something changes continuously:
                   Your English is improving. It’s getting better and better.
                   The city has grown fast in recent years. It’s got bigger and bigger.
                   As I listened to his story, I became more and more convinced that he was lying.
                   More and more tourists are visiting this part of the country.

       D   the … the …
           You can say the sooner the better, the more the better etc. :
                    a: What time shall we leave?
                    B: The sooner the better. (= as soon as possible)
                    a: What sort of bag do you want? A big one?
                    B: Yes, the bigger the better. (= as big as possible)
                    When you’re travelling, the less luggage you have the better.
           We also use the … the … to say that one thing depends on another thing:
                    The sooner we leave, the earlier we’ll arrive. (= if we leave sooner, we’ll arrive earlier)
                    The younger you are, the easier it is to learn.
                    The more expensive the hotel, the better the service.
                    The more I thought about the plan, the less I liked it.

       E   older and elder
           The comparative of old is older:
                  David looks older than he really is. (not looks elder)
           We use elder only when we talk about people in a family (my elder sister, their elder son etc.).
           You can also use older:
                    My elder sister is a TV producer. (or My older sister …)
           But we do not say that ‘somebody is elder’:
                   My sister is older than me. (not elder than me)




               any/no ➜ Unit 86 Comparative 1, 3 ➜ Units 105, 107        eldest ➜ Unit 108C
212            even + comparative ➜ Unit 112C
