Unit
108 Superlative (the longest / the most enjoyable etc.)
       A   Look at these examples:

            What is the longest river in the world?
            What was the most enjoyable holiday you’ve ever had?
            Longest and most enjoyable are superlative forms.

           The superlative form is -est or most … . In general, we use -est for short words and most … for
           longer words.
               long → longest         hot → hottest       easy → easiest       hard → hardest
           but most famous            most boring         most enjoyable       most difficult
           A few superlative forms are irregular:
                good → best           bad → worst         far → furthest or farthest
           The rules are the same as those for the comparative – see Unit 105.
           For spelling, see Appendix 6.

       B   We normally use the (or my/your etc.) with a superlative:
                  Yesterday was the hottest day of the year.
                  The Louvre in Paris is one of the most famous museums in the world.
                  She is really nice – one of the nicest people I know.
                  What’s the best movie you’ve ever seen, and what’s the worst?
                  How old is your youngest child?
           Compare the superlative and the comparative:
                  This hotel is the cheapest in town. (superlative)
                  It’s cheaper than all the others in town. (comparative)
                  He’s the most patient person I’ve ever met.
                  He’s much more patient than I am.


       C   oldest and eldest
           The superlative of old is oldest:
                   That church is the oldest building in the town. (not the eldest)
           We use eldest only when we talk about people in a family (you can also use oldest):
                   Their eldest son is 13 years old. (or Their oldest son)
                   Are you the eldest in your family? (or the oldest)

       D   After superlatives we normally use in with places:
                    What’s the longest river in the world? (not of the world)
                    We had a nice room. It was one of the best in the hotel. (not of the hotel)
           We also use in for organisations and groups of people (a class / a company etc.):
                    Who is the youngest student in the class? (not of the class)
           For a period of time (day, year etc.), we normally use of:
                     Yesterday was the hottest day of the year.
                     What was the happiest day of your life?

       E   We often use the present perfect (I have done) after a superlative (see also Unit 8A):
                    What’s the most important decision you’ve ever made?
                    That was the best holiday I’ve had for a long time.




216            Comparative (cheaper / more expensive etc.) ➜ Units 105–107       elder ➜ Unit 106E
