Unit
110 Word order 2: adverbs with the verb
       A   Some adverbs (for example, always, also, probably) go with the verb in the middle of a sentence:
                  Emily always drives to work.
                  We were feeling very tired and we were also hungry.
                  The meeting will probably be cancelled.

       B   If the verb is one word (drives/cooked etc.), the adverb goes before the verb:
                     adverb       verb
            Emily    always       drives    to work.
                I    almost       fell      as I was going down the stairs.

                    I cleaned the house and also cooked the dinner. (not cooked also)
                    Laura hardly ever watches television and rarely reads newspapers.
                    ‘Shall I give you my address?’ ‘No, I already have it.’
           Note that these adverbs (always/usually/also etc.) go before have to … :
                    Joe never phones me. I always have to phone him. (not I have always to phone)
           But adverbs go after am/is/are/was/were:
                   We were feeling very tired and we were also hungry. (not also were)
                   You’re always late. You’re never on time.
                   The traffic isn’t usually as bad as it was this morning.

       C   If the verb is two or more words (for example, can remember / will be cancelled), the adverb
           usually goes after the first verb (can/doesn’t/will etc.):
                              verb 1       adverb       verb 2
                         I    can          never        remember       her name.
                    Clare     doesn’t      usually      drive          to work.
                              Are you      definitely   going          away next week?
            The meeting       will         probably     be             cancelled.

                    You’ve always been very kind to me.
                    Jack can’t cook. He can’t even boil an egg.
                    Do you still work for the same company?
                    The house was only built a year ago and it’s already falling down.
           Note that probably goes before a negative (isn’t/won’t etc.). So we say:
                    I probably won’t see you. or
                    I’ll probably not see you. (but not I won’t probably)

       D   We also use all and both with the verb in the middle of a sentence:
                    We all felt ill after the meal. (not felt all ill)
                    My parents are both teachers.
                    Sarah and Jane have both applied for the job.
                    My friends are all going out tonight.

       E   Sometimes we use is/will/did etc. instead of repeating part of a sentence (see Unit 51):
                  Tom says he isn’t clever, but I think he is. (= he is clever)
           When we do this, we put always/never etc. before the verb:
                  He always says he won’t be late, but he always is. (= he is always late)
                  I’ve never done it and I never will. (= I will never do it)




220            Word order 1 ➜ Unit 109
