Unit
115 unless                            as long as                   provided
       A   unless
           Study this example situation:

            The club is for members only.
            You can’t go in unless you are a member.
            This means:
            You can’t go in except if you are a member.
            You can go in only if you are a member.
            unless = except if




           Some more examples of unless:
                  I’ll see you tomorrow unless I have to work late.
                  (= except if I have to work late)
                  There are no buses to the beach. Unless you have a car, it’s difficult to get there.
                  (= except if you have a car)
                  a: Shall I tell Lisa what happened?
                  B: Not unless she asks you. (= tell her only if she asks you)
                  Ben hates to complain. He wouldn’t complain about something unless it was really bad.
                  (= except if it was really bad)
                  We can take a taxi to the restaurant – unless you’d prefer to walk. (= except if you’d
                  prefer to walk)
           Instead of unless it is often possible to say if … not:
                    Unless we leave now, we’ll be late. or If we don’t leave now, we’ll …


       B   as long as / so long as and provided / providing
           You can say as long as or so long as (= if, on condition that):
                                           ⎧              ⎫
                    You can borrow my car ⎨ as long as ⎬ you promise not to drive too fast.
                                           ⎩ so long   as ⎭
                    (= You can borrow my car, but you must promise not to drive too fast. This is a condition.)
           You can also say provided (that) or providing (that):
                                                     ⎧ provided (that) ⎫
                    Travelling by car is convenient ⎨                   ⎬ you have somewhere to park.
                                                     ⎩ providing (that) ⎭
                    (= It’s convenient but only if you have somewhere to park.)
                    ⎧ Providing (that) ⎫
                    ⎨                  ⎬ the room is clean, I don’t mind which hotel we stay at.
                    ⎩ Provided (that) ⎭
                    (= The room must be clean, but otherwise I don’t mind.)

       C   unless / as long as etc. for the future
           When we are talking about the future, we do not use will after unless / as long as / so long as /
           provided / providing. We use a present tense (see Unit 25):
                  I’m not going out unless it stops raining. (not unless it will stop)
                  Providing the weather is good, we’re going to have a picnic tomorrow.
                  (not providing the weather will be good)




230            if ➜ Units 25, 38–40
