Unit
117 like and as
       A   Like = similar to, the same as:
                    What a beautiful house! It’s like a palace. (not as a palace)
                    Be careful! The floor has been polished. It’s like walking on ice. (not as walking)
                    It’s raining again. I hate weather like this. (not as this)
                    ‘What’s that noise?’ ‘It sounds like a baby crying.’ (not as a baby crying)
           In these examples, like is a preposition. So it is followed by a noun (like a palace), a pronoun
           (like this) or -ing (like walking).
           Sometimes like = for example. You can also use such as:
                  I enjoy water sports, like surfing, scuba diving and water-skiing. or
                  I enjoy water sports, such as surfing …

       B   As = in the same way as, in the same condition as.
           We use as with subject (S) + verb (V):                                   S+V
                     I didn’t move anything. I left everything as it was.        as it was
                     You should have done it as I showed you.                    as I showed
           We also use like in this way (+ subject + verb):
                    I left everything like it was.
           Compare as and like. You can say:
                  You should have done it as I showed you. or … like I showed you.
           but    You should have done it like this. (not as this)
           We say as usual / as always:
                   You’re late as usual.
                   As always, Nick was the first to complain.
           We say the same as … :
                    Your phone is the same as mine. (not the same like)

       C   Sometimes as (+ subject + verb) has other meanings. For example, after do:
                  You can do as you like. (= do what you like)
                  They did as they promised. (= They did what they promised.)
           We also say as you know / as I said / as she expected / as I thought etc. :
                    As you know, it’s Emma’s birthday next week. (= you know this already)
                    Andy failed his driving test, as he expected. (= he expected this before)
           Like is not usual in these expressions, except with say (like I said):
                    As I said yesterday, I’m sure we can solve the problem. or Like I said yesterday …

       D   As can also be a preposition (as + noun), but the meaning is different from like.
           Compare:

                    As a taxi driver, I spend most of                         Everyone in the family wants me to drive
                    my working life in a car.                                 them to places. I’m like a taxi driver.
                    (I am a taxi driver, it’s my job.)                        (I’m not a taxi driver, but I’m like one.)

           As (preposition) = in the position of, in the form of etc. :
                    Many years ago I worked as a photographer. (I was a photographer)
                    Many words, for example ‘work’ and ‘rain’, can be used as verbs or nouns.
                    London is fine as a place to visit, but I wouldn’t like to live there.
                    The news of the tragedy came as a great shock.




234            as … as ➜ Unit 107      as (= at the same time as / because) ➜ Unit 116   as if ➜ Unit 118
