      Appendix 1
      Regular and irregular verbs
      1.1   Regular verbs
            If a verb is regular, the past simple and past participle end in -ed. For example:
             infinitive           clean         finish          use        paint          stop          carry
             past simple     ⎫
                             ⎬    cleaned       finished        used       painted        stopped       carried
             past participle ⎭
             For spelling rules, see Appendix 6.
            For the past simple (I cleaned / they finished / she carried etc.), see Unit 5.
            We use the past participle to make the perfect tenses and all the passive forms.
            Perfect tenses (have/has/had cleaned):
                      I have cleaned the windows. (present perfect – see Units 7–8)
                      They were still working. They hadn’t finished. (past perfect – see Unit 15)
            Passive (is cleaned / was cleaned etc.):
                      He was carried out of the room. (past simple passive) ⎫ see Units 42–44
                                                                                 ⎬
                      This gate has just been painted. (present perfect passive) ⎭

      1.2   Irregular verbs
            When the past simple and past participle do not end in -ed (for example, I saw / I have seen), the verb
            is irregular.
            With some irregular verbs, all three forms (infinitive, past simple and past participle) are the same.
            For example, hit:
                       Don’t hit me. (infinitive)
                       Somebody hit me as I came into the room. (past simple)
                       I’ve never hit anybody in my life. (past participle – present perfect)
                       George was hit on the head by a stone. (past participle – passive)
            With other irregular verbs, the past simple is the same as the past participle (but different from the
            infinitive). For example, tell → told:
                       Can you tell me what to do? (infinitive)
                       She told me to come back the next day. (past simple)
                       Have you told anybody about your new job? (past participle – present perfect)
                       I was told to come back the next day. (past participle – passive)
            With other irregular verbs, all three forms are different. For example, wake → woke/woken:
                     I’ll wake you up. (infinitive)
                     I woke up in the middle of the night. (past simple)
                     The baby has woken up. (past participle – present perfect)
                     I was woken up by a loud noise. (past participle – passive)

      1.3   The following verbs can be regular or irregular:

             burn → burned           or   burnt                smell → smelled     or   smelt
             dream → dreamed         or   dreamt [dremt]*      spell → spelled     or   spelt
             lean → leaned           or   leant [lent]*        spill → spilled     or   spilt
             learn → learned         or   learnt               spoil → spoiled     or   spoilt
                                                                                               * pronunciation
            So you can say:
                       I leant out of the window. or I leaned out of the window.
                       The dinner has been spoiled. or The dinner has been spoilt.
            In British English the irregular form (burnt/learnt etc.) is more usual. For American English, see
            Appendix 7.

292
