Appendix 3
The future
3.1   List of future forms:

             I’m leaving tomorrow.                               present continuous            (→ Unit 19A)
             My train leaves at 9.30.                            present simple                (→ Unit 19B)
             I’m going to leave tomorrow.                        (be) going to                 (→ Units 20, 23)
             I’ll leave tomorrow.                                will                          (→ Units 21–23)
             I’ll be leaving tomorrow.                           future continuous             (→ Unit 24)
             I’ll have left by this time tomorrow.               future perfect                (→ Unit 24)
             I hope to see you before I leave tomorrow.          present simple                (→ Unit 25)

3.2   Future actions
      We use the present continuous (I’m doing) for arrangements:
               I’m leaving tomorrow. I’ve got my plane ticket. (already planned and arranged)
               ‘When are they getting married?’ ‘On 24 July.’
      We use the present simple (I leave / it leaves etc.) for timetables, programmes etc. :
               My train leaves at 11.30. (according to the timetable)
               What time does the film begin?
      We use (be) going to … to say what somebody has already decided to do:
               I’ve decided not to stay here any longer. I’m going to leave tomorrow. (or I’m leaving
               tomorrow.)
               ‘Your shoes are dirty.’ ‘Yes, I know. I’m going to clean them.’
      We use will (’ll) when we decide or agree to do something at the time of speaking:
              a: I don’t want you to stay here any longer.
              b: OK. I’ll leave tomorrow. (B decides this at the time of speaking)
              That bag looks heavy. I’ll help you with it.
              I won’t tell anybody what happened. I promise. (won’t = will not)

3.3   Future happenings and situations
      Most often we use will to talk about future happenings (‘something will happen’) or situations
      (‘something will be’):
               I don’t think John is happy at work. I think he’ll leave soon.
               This time next year I’ll be in Japan. Where will you be?
      We use (be) going to when the situation now shows what is going to happen in the future:
               Look at those black clouds. It’s going to rain. (you can see the clouds now)

3.4   Future continuous and future perfect
      Will be (do)ing = will be in the middle of (doing something):
               This time next week I’ll be on holiday. I’ll be lying on a beach or swimming in the sea.
      We also use will be -ing for future actions (see Unit 24C):
               What time will you be leaving tomorrow?
      We use will have (done) to say that something will already be complete before a time in the future:
              I won’t be here this time tomorrow. I’ll have already left.

3.5   We use the present (not will) after when/if/while/before etc. (see Unit 25):
                I hope to see you before I leave tomorrow. (not before I will leave)
                When you are in London again, come and see us. (not When you will be)
                If we don’t hurry, we’ll be late.



                                                                                                                  295
