Unit
18         used to (do)
       A   Study this example situation:

             a few years ago                          Nicola doesn’t travel much these days.
                                                      She prefers to stay at home.
                                                      But she used to travel a lot.
                                                      She used to go away two or three times a year.
                                                      She used to travel a lot = she travelled often in the past, but
                                                      she doesn’t do this any more.


                                                             she used to travel                      she doesn’t
                                                                                                        travel
                                       these days                   past                                now


       B   I used to do something = I did it often in the past, but not any more:
                    I used to play tennis a lot, but I don’t play very much now.
                    David used to spend a lot of money on clothes. These days he can’t afford it.
                    ‘Do you go to the cinema much?’ ‘Not now, but I used to.’ (= I used to go)
           We also use used to … for things that were true, but are not true any more:
                    This building is now a furniture shop. It used to be a cinema.
                    I used to think Mark was unfriendly, but now I realise he’s a very nice person.
                    I’ve started drinking coffee recently. I never used to like it before.
                    Lisa used to have very long hair when she was a child.

       C   ‘I used to do something’ is past. There is no present. You cannot say ‘I use to do’.
           To talk about the present, we use the present simple (I do).
           Compare:
               past     he used to play     we used to live      there used to be
            present     he plays            we live              there is
                      We used to live in a small village, but now we live in a city.
                      There used to be four cinemas in the town. Now there is only one.

       D   The normal question form is did (you) use to … ? :
                   Did you use to eat a lot of sweets when you were a child? (= did you do this often?)
           The negative form is didn’t use to … (used not to … is also possible):
                   I didn’t use to like him. (or I used not to like him.)

       E   Compare I used to do and I was doing:
                  I used to watch TV a lot. (= I watched TV often in the past, but I don’t do this any more)
                  I was watching TV when Rob called. (= I was in the middle of watching TV)

       F   Do not confuse I used to do and I am used to doing (see Unit 61). The structures and meanings
           are different:
                     I used to live alone. (= I lived alone in the past, but I no longer live alone.)
                     I am used to living alone. (= I live alone, and it’s not a problem for me because I’ve lived
                     alone for some time.)


               Past continuous (I was doing) ➜ Unit 6 would (= used to) ➜ Unit 36
36             be/get used to (doing something) ➜ Unit 61
