Unit
27         could (do) and could have (done)
       A   Sometimes could is the past of can (see Unit 26):
                  Listen. I can hear something. (now)
                  I listened. I could hear something. (past)

             But could is not always past. We also use could for possible actions now or in the future, especially to
             make suggestions. For example:
                                                                       What shall we      We could go to the cinema.
                   a: What shall we do tonight?                        do tonight?
                   b: We could go to the cinema.
                    a: When you go to Paris next month,
                       you could stay with Sarah.
                    b: Yes, I suppose I could.
             Can is also possible in these sentences (‘We can go to the
             cinema.’ etc.). Could is less sure than can.



       B   We also use could (not can) for actions that are not realistic. For example:
                    I’m so tired, I could sleep for a week. (not I can sleep for a week)
           Compare can and could:
                  I can stay with Sarah when I go to Paris. (realistic)
                  Maybe I could stay with Sarah when I go to Paris. (possible, but less sure)
                  This is a wonderful place. I could stay here for ever. (unrealistic)

       C   We also use could (not can) to say that something is possible now or in the future:
                    The story could be true, but I don’t think it is. (not can be true)
                    I don’t know what time Lisa is coming. She could get here at any time.
           Compare can and could:
                  The weather can change very quickly in the mountains. (in general)
                  The weather is nice now, but it could change later. (the weather now, not in general)

       D   We use could have (done) to talk about the past. Compare:
                   I’m so tired, I could sleep for a week. (now)
                   I was so tired, I could have slept for a week. (past)
                   The situation is bad, but it could be worse. (now)
                   The situation was bad, but it could have been worse. (past)
           Something could have happened = it was possible, but did not happen:
                  Why did you stay at a hotel? You could have stayed with me.
                  David was lucky. He could have hurt himself when he fell, but he’s all right.

       E   I couldn’t do something = it would not be possible:
                   I couldn’t live in a big city. I’d hate it. (= it wouldn’t be possible for me)
                   Everything is fine right now. Things couldn’t be better.
           For the past we use couldn’t have … (= would not have been possible):
                    We had a really good holiday. It couldn’t have been better.
           Note that ‘I couldn’t do something’ has two meanings:
           (1) I couldn’t = it would not be possible now, I would not be able:
                     I couldn’t run ten kilometres now. I’m not fit enough. (= I would not be able)
           (2) I couldn’t = I was not able (past)
                     I couldn’t run yesterday because I’d hurt my leg. (= I was not able)


               can and could ➜ Unit 26 couldn’t have (done) ➜ Unit 28B could and might ➜ Unit 29C
54             could I/you … ? ➜ Unit 37 could with if ➜ Units 38C, 39E, 40D Modal verbs (can/will etc.) ➜ Appendix 4
