Unit
28         must and can’t
       A   Study this example:

              My house is very near the motorway.       It must be very noisy.




           We use must to say that we believe something is certain:
                   You’ve been travelling all day. You must be tired.
                   (travelling is tiring and you’ve been travelling all day, so you must be tired)
                   ‘Joe is a hard worker.’ ‘Joe? You must be joking. He doesn’t do anything.’
                   Louise must get very bored in her job. She does the same thing every day.
           We use can’t to say that we believe something is not possible:
                   You’ve just had lunch. You can’t be hungry already.
                   (we don’t expect people to be hungry immediately after a meal)
                   They haven’t lived here for very long. They can’t know many people.
           The structure is:
                                             be (tired / hungry / at work etc.)
                                   must
            you/she/they (etc.)              be -ing (doing / going / joking etc.)
                                   can’t
                                             get / know / have etc.


       B   Study this example:

                                                                             Martin and Lucy expected their friends to
                                                                             be at home.
                                                                             They rang the doorbell twice, but
                    There’s nobody at                                        nobody has answered. Lucy says:
                    home. They must
                    have gone out.                                           They must have gone out.
                                                                             (= there is no other possibility)

           For the past we use must have … and can’t have … :
                    I lost one of my gloves. I must have dropped it somewhere.
                    (that’s the only explanation I can think of)
                    ‘We used to live very near the motorway.’ ‘Did you? It must have been noisy.’
                    Sarah hasn’t contacted me. She can’t have got my message.
                    Max walked into a wall. He can’t have been looking where he was going.
           The structure is:
                                                been (asleep / at work etc.)
                               must
            I/you/he (etc.)             have    been -ing (doing / looking etc.)
                               can’t
                                                gone / got / known etc.
           You can use couldn’t have instead of can’t have:
                    Sarah couldn’t have got my message.
                    Max couldn’t have been looking where he was going.




               can’t (‘I can’t swim’ etc.) ➜ Unit 26 must (‘I must go’ etc.) ➜ Units 31–32
56             Modal verbs (can/will etc.) ➜ Appendix 4 American English ➜ Appendix 7
