Unit
30         may and might 2
       A   We use may and might to talk about possible actions or happenings in the future:
                   I haven’t decided where to go on holiday. I may go to Ireland. (= perhaps I will go there)
                   Take an umbrella with you. It might rain later. (= perhaps it will rain)
                   The bus isn’t always on time. We might have to wait a few minutes.
                   (= perhaps we will have to wait)
           The negative forms are may not and might not (mightn’t):
                   Amy may not go out tonight. She isn’t feeling well. (= perhaps she will not go out)
                   There might not be enough time to discuss everything at the meeting.
                   (= perhaps there will not be enough time)
           Compare:
                   I’m going to buy a car. (for sure)
                   I may buy a car. or I might buy a car. (possible)

       B   Usually you can use may or might. So you can say:
                    I may go to Ireland. or I might go to Ireland.
                    Jane might be able to help you. or Jane may be able to help you.
           But we use might (not may) when the situation is not real:
                     If they paid me better, I might work harder. (not I may work)
           This situation (If they paid me better) is not real. They do not pay me well, so I’m not going
           to work harder.

       C   Compare may/might be -ing and will be -ing:
                  Don’t phone at 8.30. I’ll be watching the football on TV.
                  Don’t phone at 8.30. I might be watching the football on TV. (= perhaps I’ll be
                  watching it)
           We also use may/might be -ing for possible plans. Compare:
                    I’m going to Ireland soon. (for sure)
                    I might be going (or I may be going) to Ireland soon. (possible)

       D   might as well

             Helen and Clare have just missed the bus.
             The buses run every hour.

                     What shall we do? Shall we walk?


                   We might as well. It’s a nice day and
                   I don’t want to wait here for an hour.


             We might as well do something = we should
             do it because there is no better alternative.
             There is no reason not to do it.
             You can also use may as well.

                    a: What time are you going out?
                    b: Well, I’m ready, so I might as well go now. or … I may as well go now.
                    Buses are so expensive these days, you might as well get a taxi.
                    (= taxis are as good, no more expensive than buses)

               will be -ing ➜ Unit 24 may/might 1 ➜ Unit 29        may I … ? ➜ Unit 37
60             might with if ➜ Units 38C, 40D
