Unit       can/could/would you … ? etc.
37         (Requests, oﬀers, permission and invitations)
       A   Asking people to do things (requests)                                     Could you open the door, please?
           We use can or could to ask people to do things:
                   Can you wait a moment, please?
           or      Could you wait a moment, please?
                   Helen, can you do me a favour?
                   Excuse me, could you tell me how to get to the bus station?
           You can say Do you think you could … ? :
                    Do you think you could take me to the airport?
                    (not Do you think you can)

       B   Asking for things
           To ask for something, we use Can (I) have … ? / Could (I) have … ? or Can (I) get …?:
                    (in a shop)
                    Can I have these postcards, please? or Can I get these postcards, please?
                    (in a restaurant)
                    Could we have the menu, please? or Can we have the menu, please?
           May I have … ? is also possible:
                   May I have these postcards, please?

       C   Asking to do things                                                           Could I use your phone charger?
           We use can I or could I to ask to do something:
                   (on the phone) Hello, can I speak to Steve, please?
                   ‘Could I use your phone charger?’ ‘Sure.’
                   Do you think I could borrow your bike?
           May is also possible:
                    May I ask you a question?
           May is more formal than can or could.
           You can also say:
                Do you mind if I … ?
                Is it all right if I …? / Is it OK if I … ?
                     Do you mind if I use your phone charger?
                     ‘Is it all right if I sit here?’ ‘Yes, of course.’

       D   Offering and inviting
           You can use Can I … ? to offer to do something:
                    ‘Can I help you?’ ‘No, it’s OK. I can manage, thanks.’
                    ‘Can I get you some coffee?’ ‘That would be nice.’
           To offer or to invite, we use Would you like … ? (not Do you like):
                     ‘Would you like some coffee?’ ‘No, thanks.’
                     ‘Would you like to eat with us tonight?’ ‘That would be great.’
           I’d like … (= I would like) is a polite way to say what you want:
                     (at a tourist information oﬀice) I’d like some information about hotels, please.
                     (in a shop) I’d like to try on this jacket, please.




                can and could ➜ Units 26–27 mind -ing ➜ Unit 53 would like ➜ Units 55A, 58B
74              Modal verbs (can/could/will/would etc.) ➜ Appendix 4
