Unit
67         see somebody do and see somebody doing
       A   Study this example situation:

            Tom got into his car and drove off. You saw this.
            You can say:
                   I saw Tom get into his car and drive off.
            We say ‘I saw him do something’ (= he did it
            and I saw this). In the same way, you can say:
                                                                 tom
              hear
              listen to    somebody do something
              watch        something happen
              feel

                    I didn’t hear you come in. (you came in – I didn’t hear this)
                    Lisa suddenly felt somebody touch her on the shoulder.


       B   Study this example situation:

            Yesterday you saw Kate. She was waiting for a bus.
            You can say:
                   I saw Kate waiting for a bus.
            We say ‘I saw her doing something’ (= she was doing it and I saw this).
            In the same way, you can say:
              hear
              listen to                                                                        kate
              watch          somebody doing something
              feel           something happening
              smell
              find

                    I could hear it raining. (it was raining – I could hear it)
                    Listen to the birds singing!
                    Can you smell something burning?
                    We looked for Paul and finally we found him sitting under a tree eating an apple.


       C   Study the difference in meaning:

            I saw him do something = he did something and I saw this.
            I saw the complete action from start to finish:
                    He jumped over the wall and ran away. I saw this.
                    → I saw him jump over the wall and run away.
                    They went out. I heard this. → I heard them go out.
            I saw him doing something = he was doing something and I saw this.
            I saw him in the middle of doing something (not from start to finish):
                    I saw Tom as I drove past in my car. He was walking along the street.
                    → I saw Tom walking along the street.
                    I heard them. They were talking. → I heard them talking.
            Sometimes the difference is not important and you can use either form:
                  I’ve never seen her dance. or I’ve never seen her dancing.



134            Past simple (I did) ➜ Unit 5   Past continuous (I was doing) ➜ Unit 6
