Unit
76         the 4 (the giraﬀe / the telephone / the old etc.)
       A   Study these sentences:
                    The giraffe is the tallest of all animals.
                    The bicycle is an excellent means of transport.
                    When was the camera invented?
                    The dollar is the currency of the United States.
           In these examples, the … does not mean one specific thing.
           The giraffe = a specific type of animal, not a specific giraffe.
           We use the … in this way to talk about a type of animal,
           machine etc.
           In the same way we use the for musical instruments:
                    Can you play the guitar?
                    The piano is my favourite instrument.
           Compare a and the:
                  I’d like to have a piano.    but I can’t play the piano.
                  We saw a giraffe at the zoo. but The giraffe is my favourite animal.
           Note that man (without the) = human beings in general, the human race:
                    What do you know about the origins of man? (not the man)

       B   the old, the rich etc.
           We use the + adjective (without a noun) to talk about groups of people. For example:
            the old                 the rich          the homeless               the sick
            the elderly             the poor          the unemployed             the injured
           the old = old people, the rich = rich people etc. :
                    Do you think the rich should pay higher taxes?
                    We need to do more to help the homeless.
           Note that we say: the old (not the olds), the poor (not the poors) etc.
           The rich, the homeless etc. are plural. For one person, we say:
             a rich man (not a rich) a homeless person (not a homeless)

       C   the French, the Chinese etc.
           We use the + a few nationality adjectives that end in -ch or -sh. For example:
              the French      the Dutch       the British     the English       the Spanish
           The meaning is plural – the people of that country.
                  The French are famous for their food. (not French are …)
           We do not say ‘a French’ or ‘an English’ (singular). For example, we say:
                   I met a French woman / an English guy.
           We also use the + nationality words ending in -ese or -ss. For example:
              the Chinese      the Portuguese       the Swiss
           These words can also be singular (a Chinese, a Swiss etc.).
           With other nationality words, the plural ends in -s (usually without the). For example:
              an Italian → Italians    a Mexican → Mexicans         a Thai → Thais
                    Italians / Mexicans / Thais are very friendly.
           In all cases you can use adjective + people. For example, you can say:
                      French / Chinese / Mexican people are very friendly.




152            a/an and the ➜ Unit 72      the ➜ Units 73–75      Names with and without the ➜ Units 77–78
