Unit       Relative clauses 2:
93         clauses with and without who/that/which
       A   Look at these example sentences from Unit 92:
                     The woman who lives next door to me is a doctor. (or The woman that lives …)

                               The woman lives next door to me                     who (= the woman) is the subject

                     Where are the keys that were on the table? (or … the keys which were …)

                                       The keys were on the table                    that (= the keys) is the subject
           You must use who/that/which when it is the subject of the relative clause. You cannot leave out
           who/that/which in these examples.

       B   Sometimes who/that/which is the object of the verb. For example:
                     The woman who I wanted to see was away on holiday.

                                          I wanted to see the woman           who (= the woman) is the object
                                                                              I is the subject
                     Did you find the keys that you lost?
                                                                              that (= the keys) is the object
                                                   you lost the keys
                                                                              you is the subject
           When who/that/which is the object, you can leave it out. So you can say:
                    The woman I wanted to see was away. or The woman who I wanted to see …
                    Did you find the keys you lost? or … the keys that you lost?
                    The dress Lisa bought doesn’t fit her very well. or The dress that Lisa bought …
                    Is there anything I can do? or … anything that I can do?
           Note that we say:
               the keys you lost (not the keys you lost them)
               the dress Lisa bought (not the dress Lisa bought it)

       C   Note the position of prepositions (to/in/for etc.) in relative clauses:

                     Tom is talking to a woman. Do you know her? (2 sentences)

                     Do you know the woman Tom is talking to ? (or … the woman who/that Tom is talking to)

                     I slept in a bed. It wasn’t comfortable. (2 sentences)

                     The bed I slept in wasn’t comfortable. (or The bed that/which I slept in …)

                    Are these the books you were looking for? or
                    Are these the books that/which you were …
                    The man I was sitting next to on the plane talked all the time. or
                    The man who/that I was sitting next to …
           Note that we say:
               the books you were looking for (not the books you were looking for them)
               the man I was sitting next to (not the man I was sitting next to him)

       D   We say:
                     Everything (that) they said was true. (not Everything what they said)
                     I gave her all the money (that) I had. (not all the money what I had)
           What = the thing(s) that:
                   What they said was true. (= The things that they said)



186            Relative clauses 1 ➜ Unit 92   Relative clauses 3–5 ➜ Units 94–96      whom ➜ Unit 94B
