Unitalthough though even though
113 in spite of despite
       A   Study this example situation:

                                                         Last year Paul and Sarah had a holiday by the sea.
                                                         It rained a lot, but they had a good time.
                                                         You can say:
                                                         Although it rained a lot, they had a good time.
                                                         (= It rained a lot, but they …)
                                                         or
                                                         In spite of ⎫ the rain, they had a good time.
                                                                       ⎬
                                                            Despite ⎭




       B   After although we use a subject + verb:
                     Although it rained a lot, they had a good time.
                     I didn’t apply for the job although I had the necessary qualifications.
           Compare the meaning of although and because:
                  We went out although it was raining heavily.
                  We didn’t go out because it was raining heavily.

       C   After in spite of or despite, we use a noun, a pronoun (this/that/what etc.) or -ing:
                     In spite of the rain, we had a good time.
                     She wasn’t well, but in spite of this she continued working.
                     In spite of what I said yesterday, I still love you.
                     I didn’t apply for the job in spite of having the necessary qualifications.
           Despite is the same as in spite of. We say in spite of, but despite (without of):
                   She wasn’t well, but despite this she continued working. (not despite of this)
           You can say ‘in spite of the fact (that) …’ and ‘despite the fact (that) …’ :
                                              ⎧ in spite of the fact (that) ⎧
                    I didn’t apply for the job ⎨                            ⎨ I had the necessary qualifications.
                                              ⎩ despite the fact (that) ⎩
           Compare in spite of and because of:
                  We went out in spite of the rain. (or … despite the rain.)
                  We didn’t go out because of the rain.

       D   Compare although and in spite of / despite:
                    Although the traffic was bad, ⎧
                                                    ⎨ we arrived on time.      (not in spite of the traffic was bad)
                           In spite of the traffic, ⎩
                                     ⎧
                    I couldn’t sleep ⎨ although I was very tired.
                                     ⎩ despite being very tired.  (not despite I was tired)

       E   though = although:
                  I didn’t apply for the job though I had the necessary qualifications.
           In spoken English we often use though at the end of a sentence:
                    The house isn’t so nice. I like the garden though. (= but I like the garden)
                    I see them every day. I’ve never spoken to them though. (= but I’ve never spoken to them)
           Even though (but not ‘even’ alone) is similar to although:
                   Even though I was really tired, I couldn’t sleep. (not even I was really tired)


226            even ➜ Unit 112
