Unit
128 by
       A   You can say that something happens by mistake / by accident / by chance:
                    We hadn’t arranged to meet. We met by chance.
           But we say ‘do something on purpose’ (= you mean to do it):
                    I didn’t do it on purpose. It was an accident.
           Note that we say by chance, by accident etc. (not by the chance / by an accident).
           In these expressions we use by + noun without the or a.

       B   We use by … to say how somebody travels. For example, you can travel:
               by car by train by plane by boat by ship by bus by bike etc.
                   Jess usually goes to work by bus / by bike / by car.
           We do not use by if we say my car / the train / a taxi etc. We say:
               by car     but in my car (not by my car)
               by train but on the train (not by the train)
           We use in for cars and taxis:
                    They didn’t come in their car. They came in a taxi.
           We use on for bikes and public transport (buses, trains etc.):
                    We travelled on the 6.45 train, which arrived at 8.30.
           Note that we usually say on foot (not usually by foot):
                    Did you come here by car or on foot?
           We also use by to say how we do other things. For example, you can:
                send something by post       pay by card / by cheque        do something by hand
                    Can I pay by credit card?
           But note that we say pay cash or pay in cash (not usually by cash).

       C   We say that ‘something is done by …’ (passive):
                    Have you ever been bitten by a dog?
                    The programme was watched by millions of people.
           Compare by and with:
                  The door must have been opened with a key. (not by a key)
                  (= somebody used a key to open it)
                  The door must have been opened by somebody with a key.
           We say: a play by Shakespeare, a painting by Rembrandt, a novel by Tolstoy etc.
                    Have you read any poems by Shakespeare?
                    ‘Who is this painting by? Picasso?’ ‘I have no idea.’

       D   By also means ‘next to / beside’:
                    The light switch is by the door.
                    Come and sit by me. (= next to me)               LIGHT SWITCH




       E   You can also use by… to show the difference between two things:
                    Clare’s salary has increased by ten per cent.
                    (= it’s now ten per cent more than before)
                    Carl won the race by five metres.
                    (= he was five metres in front of the other runners)

                                                                                           CARL




256            Passive + by ➜ Unit 42B   by + -ing ➜ Unit 60B    by myself ➜ Unit 83C   by (time) ➜ Unit 120
