Unit
143 Phrasal verbs 7 up (1)
       A   go up, come up, walk up (to …) = approach
                  A man came up to me in the street and asked me for money.
           catch up (with somebody), catch somebody up = move faster than people in front of you
           so that you reach them
                   I’m not ready to go yet. You go on and I’ll catch up with you / I’ll catch you up.
           keep up (with somebody) = continue at the same speed or level
                 You’re walking too fast. I can’t keep up (with you).
                 You’re doing well. Keep it up!


       B   set up an organisation, a company, a business, a system, a website etc. = start it
                  The government has set up a committee to investigate the problem.
           take up a hobby, a sport, an activity etc. = start doing it
                 Laura took up photography a few years ago. She takes really good pictures.
           fix up a meeting etc. = arrange it
                  We’ve fixed up a meeting for next Monday.


       C   grow up = become an adult
                 Amy was born in Hong Kong but grew up in Australia.
           bring up a child = raise, look after a child
                 Her parents died when she was a child and she was brought up by her grandparents.


       D   clean up, clear up, tidy up = make something clean, tidy etc.
                 Look at this mess! Who’s going to tidy up? (or … to tidy it up)
           wash up = wash the plates, dishes etc. after a meal
                I hate washing up. (or I hate doing the washing-up.)


       E   end up somewhere, end up doing something etc.
                 There was a fight in the street and three men ended up in hospital.
                 (= that’s what happened to these men in the end)
                 I couldn’t find a hotel and ended up sleeping on a bench at the station.
                 (= that’s what happened to me in the end)
           give up = stop trying, give something up = stop doing it
                 Don’t give up. Keep trying!
                 Sue got bored with her job and decided to give it up. (= stop doing it)
           make up something, be made up of something
                Children under 16 make up half the population of the city.
                (= half the population are children under 16)
                Air is made up mainly of nitrogen and oxygen. (= Air consists of …)
           take up space or time = use space or time
                 Most of the space in the room was taken up by a large table.
           turn up, show up = arrive, appear
                 We arranged to meet David last night, but he didn’t turn up.
           use something up = use all of it so that nothing is left
                 I’m going to make soup. We have a lot of vegetables and I want to use them up.


286          Phrasal verbs 1 (Introduction) ➜ Unit 137   More verbs + up ➜ Units 142, 144
